Poor Bell , my flawed Sister .
Always something to occupy your nervousness .
Odrade left Central on departure morning much entangled in her thinking an introspective mood , worried by what she had learned Sharing with Murbella and Sheeana .
I m being self <unk> .
That offered no relief .
Her thoughts were framed by Other Memory and almost cynical fatalism .
Queen bees swarming ?
That had been suggested of Honored Matres .
But Sheeana ?
And Tam approves ?
This carried more in it than a Scattering .
I cannot follow into your wild place , Sheeana .
My task is to produce order .
&#124; cannot risk what you have dared .
There are different kinds of artistry .
Yours repels me .
<unk> lifetimes of Murbella s Other Memory helped .
Murbella s knowledge was a powerful leverage on Honored Matres but full of disturbing nuances .
Not hypnotrance .
They use cellular induction , a <unk> of their damned T probes !
Unconscious compulsion !
How tempting to use it for ourselves .
But this is where Honored Matres are most vulnerable enormous unconsciousness content locked in by their own decisions .
Murbella s key only emphasizes its danger to us .
They arrived at the Landing Flat in the midst of a windstorm that buffeted them when they emerged from their car .
Odrade had vetoed a walk through what remained of orchards and vineyards .
Leaving for the last time ?
The question in Bellonda s eyes as she said goodbye .
In Sheeana s worried frown .
Does Mother Superior accept my decision ?
Provisionally , Sheeana .
Provisionally .
But &#124; have not warned Murbella .
So ... perhaps &#124; do share Tam s judgment .
Dortujla , in the van of Odrade s party , was withdrawn .
Understandable .
She has been there ... and watched her Sisters eaten .
Courage , Sister !
We are not yet defeated .
Only Murbella had appeared to take this in stride but she was thinking ahead to Odrade s encounter with the Spider Queen .
Have I armed Mother Superior sufficiently ?
Does she know in her guts how very dangerous this will be ?
Odrade pushed such thoughts aside .
There were things to do on the crossing .
None of them more important than gathering her energies .
Honored Matres could be analyzed almost out of reality , but the actual confrontation would be played as it came a jazz performance .
She liked the idea of jazz although the music distracted her with its antique flavors and the <unk> into wildness .
<unk> spoke about life , though .
No two performances ever identical .
<unk> reacted to what was received from the others : jazz .
Feed us with jazz .
Air and space travel did not often concern itself with weather .
<unk> your way through transitory <unk> .
Depend on Weather Control to provide launch windows through storms and cloud cover .
Desert planets were an exception and that would have to be entered into Chapterhouse equations before long .
Many changes , including return to Fremen mortuary practices .
Bodies rendered for water and <unk> .
Odrade spoke of this as they waited for transport up to the ship .
That wide <unk> of hot , dry land expanding around the planet s equator would begin <unk> dangerous winds before long .
One day , there would be <unk> storms : a blast furnace from the desert interior with speeds in hundreds of kilometers an hour .
Dune had seen winds of more than seven hundred <unk> .
Even space lighters took notice of such force .
Air travel would be subject to the constant whims of surface conditions .
And frail human flesh must find whatever shelter it could .
As we always have .
The lounge at the Flat was old .
Stone inside and out , their first major building material here .
Spartan slingchairs and low tables of molded plaz were more recent .
<unk> could not be ignored even for Mother Superior .
The lighter arrived in a dusty maelstrom .
No nonsense about suspensor <unk> .
This would be a quick lift with uncomfortable <unk> but not high enough to damage flesh .
Odrade felt almost disembodied as she said her final <unk> and turned Chapterhouse over to a triumvirate of Sheeana , Murbella , and Bellonda .
One last word : Don t interfere with Teg .
And &#124; don t want anything nasty happening to Duncan .
Hear me , Bell ?
All of the wonderful technological things they could accomplish and they still could not keep a thick sandstorm from almost blinding them as they lifted .
Odrade closed her eyes and accepted the fact that she was not to get a last low level overview of her beloved planet .
She awoke to the thump of docking .
<unk> waiting in a corridor just beyond the lock .
<unk> traverse to their quarters .
Tamalane , Dortujla , and the acolyte servant maintained silence , <unk> Mother Superior s desire to be with her own thoughts .
The quarters , at least , were familiar , standard on Bene Gesserit ships : a small sitting dining room in elemental plaz of uniform light green ; smaller sleeping chamber with walls in the same color and a single hard cot .
They knew Mother Superior s preferences .
Odrade glanced into a usiform bath and toilet .
Standard facilities .
<unk> quarters for Tam and Dortujla were similar .
Time later to look at the ship s <unk> .
All essentials had been provided .
Including unobtrusive elements of psychological support : subdued colors , familiar furnishings , a setting to disturb none of her mental processes .
She gave orders for departure before returning to her sitting dining room .
Food was waiting on a low table blue fruit , sweet and <unk> , a <unk> yellow spread on bread tailored to her energy needs .
Very good .
She watched the assigned acolyte at her self effacing work arranging Mother Superior s effects .
The name evaded Odrade for a second , then : <unk> / <unk> .
A dark little thing with a round , calm face and manners to match .
Not one of our brightest but guaranteed efficient .
It struck Odrade suddenly that these assignments had an element of callousness in them .
A small entourage , not to offend Honored Matres .
And keep our losses to a minimum .
Have you unpacked all of my things , Suipol ?
Yes , Mother Superior .
Very proud of having been chosen for this important assignment .
It showed in her walk as she left .
There are some things you cannot <unk> for me , Suipol .
&#124; carry those in my head .
No Bene Gesserit from Chapterhouse ever left the planet without taking along a certain amount of <unk> .
Other places were never quite as beautiful , never quite as serene , never as pleasant a habitat .
But this is the Chapterhouse that was .
It was an aspect of the desert transformation she had never before viewed in quite that way .
Chapterhouse was removing itself .
Going away , never to return , at least not in the lifetimes of those who knew it now .
It was like being abandoned by a beloved parent disdainfully and with malice .
You are no longer important to me , child .
On the way to becoming a Reverend Mother , they were taught early that travel could provide a peaceful byway for rest .
Odrade fully intended to take advantage of this and told her companions immediately after eating , Spare me details .
Suipol was sent to summon Tamalane .
Odrade spoke in Tam s own terse meter .
Inspect the <unk> and tell me what I should see .
Take Dortujla .
Good head , that one .
High praise from Tam .
When we &apos;re through , isolate me as much as possible .
During part of the crossing , Odrade strapped herself into the <unk> of her cot and occupied herself composing what she thought of as a last will and testament .
Who would be <unk> ?
Murbella was her personal choice , especially after the Sharing with Sheeana .
Still ... the Dune waif remained a potent candidate if this venture to Junction failed .
Some assumed any Reverend Mother could serve if responsibility fell on her .
But not in these times .
Not with this trap set .
Honored Matres were unlikely to avoid the pitfall .
If we &apos;ve judged them correctly .
And Murbella s data says we ve done our best .
The opening is there for Honored Matres to enter , and oh , how inviting it will appear .
They won &apos;t see the dead end until they &apos;re well into it .
Too late !
But what if we fail ?
Survivors ( if any ) would hold Odrade in contempt .
&#124; have often felt diminished but never an object of contempt .
Yet the decisions &#124; made may never be accepted by my Sisters .
At least , &#124; !
make no excuses ... not even to the ones with whom I Shared .
They know my response comes from the darkness before a human dawn .
Any of us may do a futile thing , even a stupid thing .
But my plan can give us victory .
We will not just survive .
Our grail requires us to persist together .
Humans need us !
Sometimes , they need religions .
Sometimes , they need merely know their beliefs are as empty as their hopes for nobility .
We are their source .
After the masks are removed , that remains : Our <unk> .
She felt then that this ship was taking her into the pit .
Closer and closer to awful threat .
&#124; go to the axe ; it does not come to me .
No thoughts of exterminating this foe .
Not since the Scattering magnified human population had that been possible .
A flaw in Honored Matre schemes .
The high pitched beep and flashing orange light that signaled arrival brought her out of repose .
She struggled from her sling straps and , with Tam , Dortujla , and Suipol close behind , followed a guide to the transport lock where a <unk> lighter clung to its <unk> .
Odrade looked at the lighter visible in <unk> scanners .
<unk> small !
It ll only be nineteen hours , Duncan had said .
But that s as close as we dare bring the no ship .
They re sure to have foldspace sensors close around Junction .
Bell , for once , had agreed .
Don t risk the ship .
It s there to plot outer defenses and receive your transmissions , not just to deliver Mother Superior .
The lighter was the no ship s forward sensor , signaling what it encountered .
And I am the foremost sensor , a fragile body with delicate instruments .
There were guide arrows at the lock .
Odrade led the way .
They went through a small tube in free fall .
She found herself in a surprisingly rich cabin .
Suipol , tumbling behind , recognized it and went up a notch in Odrade s estimation .
This was a smuggler ship .
One person awaited them .
Male by his smell but an opaque pilot s hood bristling with connectors concealed his face .
Everyone strap in .
Male voice within that <unk> .
Teg chose him .
He &apos;ll be the best .
Odrade slipped into a seat behind a landing port and found the lumpy protrusions that unreeled into web harness .
She heard the others obeying the pilot s command .
All secure ?
Stay strapped in unless &#124; say otherwise .
His voice came from a floating speaker behind his seat at the drive console .
The <unk> went <unk> !
Odrade felt gentle motions , but the view in the relay beside her showed the no ship receding at a remarkable rate .
It winked out of existence .
Going about its business before anyone can come out to investigate .
The lighter had surprising speed .
<unk> reported planetary stations and transition barriers at eighteen plus hours but winking dots identifying them were visible only because they had been enhanced .
A window in the scanner said the stations would be naked eye visible in a little more than twelve of those hours .
The sense of motion ceased abruptly and Odrade no longer felt the acceleration her eyes reported .
Suspensor cabin .
Ixian technology for a nullfield this small .
Where had Teg acquired it ?
Not necessary for me to know .
Why tell Mother Superior where every oak plantation is located ?
She watched sensor contacts begin within the hour and gave silent thanks for Idaho s astuteness .
We &apos;re beginning to know these Honored Matres .
Junction s defensive pattern was apparent even without scanner analysis .
<unk> planes !
Just as Teg predicted .
With knowledge of how barriers were spaced , Teg s people could weave another globe around the planet .
Surely it s not that simple .
Were Honored Matres so confident of overwhelming power that they ignored elementary precautions ?
Planetary Station Four began calling when they were just under three hours out .
<unk> yourself !
Odrade heard an or else in that command .
The pilot s response obviously surprised the watchers .
You come in a little smuggler ship ?
So they recognize it .
Teg is right once more .
I m about to burn the sensor equipment in the drive , the pilot announced .
It will add to our thrust .
Make sure you &apos;re all securely harnessed .
Station Four noticed .
Why are you increasing velocity ?
Odrade leaned forward .
Repeat the countersign and say our party is fatigued from too long in cramped quarters .
Add that &#124; have equipped myself with a precautionary vital signs transmitter to alert my people should &#124; die .
They won &apos;t find the encryption !
Clever Duncan .
And wasn t Bell surprised to discover what he hid in Shipsystems .
More <unk> !
The pilot relayed her words .
Back came the order : Reduce velocity and lock onto those coordinates for landing .
We are taking over your ship control at this point .
The pilot touched a yellow field on his board .
Just the way the Bashar said they would .
A gloating sound in his voice .
He lifted the hood off his head and turned .
Odrade was shocked .
Cyborg !
The face was a metal mask with two glittering silver balls for eyes .
We enter dangerous ground .
They didn t tell you ?
he asked .
Waste no pity .
&#124; was dead and this gave me life .
It s Clairby , Mother Superior .
And when &#124; die this time , that will buy me life as a ghola .
Damn !
We &apos;re trading in coin that may be denied us .
Too late to change .
And that was Teg s plan .
But ... Clairby ?
The lighter landed with a smoothness that spoke of superb control by Station Four .
Odrade knew the moment because a manicured landscape visible in her scanner no longer moved .
The nullfield was turned off and she felt gravity .
The hatch directly in front of her opened .
Temperature pleasantly warm .
Noise out there .
Children playing some competitive game ?
<unk> floating behind , she stepped onto a short flight of steps and saw that the noise did indeed come from a large group of children in a nearby field .
In their high teens and female .
They were <unk> a suspensor float ball back and forth , shouting and screaming as they played .
<unk> for our benefit ?
Odrade thought it likely .
There probably were two thousand young women on that field .
Look how many recruits we have coming along !
No one to greet her but Odrade saw a familiar structure down a paved lane to her left .
Obvious Spacing Guild artifact with a recent tower added .
She spoke of the tower as she glanced around her , giving the <unk> transmitter data on a change from Teg s <unk> .
Nobody who had ever seen a Guild building could <unk> this place , though .
So this was like other Junction planets .
Somewhere in Guild records there doubtless was a serial number and code for it .
So long under Guild control before Honored Matres that , in these first moments of <unk> , getting their ground legs , everything around them could be seen to have that special Guild flavor .
Even the playing field designed for outdoor meetings of Navigators in their giant containers of melange gas .
The Guild flavor : It was compounded of Ixian technology and Navigator design buildings wrapped around space in the most energy conserving way , paths direct ; few slide walks .
They were wasteful and only the gravity bound needed them .
No flowery plantings near the Landing Flat .
They were susceptible to accidental destruction .
And that permanent grayness to all construction not silver but as dull as Tleilaxu skin .
The structure on her left was a great bulging shape with <unk> , some rounded and some angular .
This had been no lavish hostelry .
<unk> little nooks , of course , but those were rare , built for <unk> , mostly inspectors from the Guild .
Once more , Teg is right .
Honored Matres kept existing structures , remodeling minimally .
A tower !
Odrade reminded herself then : This is not only another world but also another society with its own social glue .
She had a handle on that from Sharing with Murbella but did not think she had plumbed what held Honored Matres together .
Surely not just a <unk> after power .
We &apos;ll walk , she said and led the way down the paved lane toward the giant structure .
Goodbye , Clairby .
Blow your ship as soon as you can .
Let it be our first great surprise for Honored Matres .
The Guild structure loomed higher as they approached .
The most astonishing thing to Odrade whenever she saw one of these functional <unk> was that someone had taken a great deal of care in planning it .
<unk> detail in everything although you sometimes had to dig for it .
<unk> dictated reduced quality in many choices , endurance preferred over luxury or eye appeal .
Compromise and , like most compromise , satisfying no one .
Guild <unk> undoubtedly had complained at the price , and present occupants still could feel irritated at <unk> .
No matter .
The thing was tangible substance .
It was here to be used now .
Another compromise .
The lobby was smaller than she had expected .
Some interior changes .
Only about six meters long and perhaps four meters wide .
Reception slot was on their right as they entered .
Odrade motioned Suipol to register their party and indicated that the rest of them should wait in the open area well within striking distance of one another .
Treachery had not been ruled out .
Dortujla obviously expected it .
She looked resigned .
Odrade made a careful inspection and commented on their surroundings .
Plenty of comeyes but the rest of it ... Each time she entered one of these places , she had the sensation of being in a museum .
Other Memory said <unk> of this sort had not changed <unk> in eons .
Even in early times she found <unk> .
A glimpse of the past in the chandeliers gigantic glittering things <unk> of electric devices but furnished with glowglobes .
Two of them dominated the ceiling like imaginary spaceships descending in splendor from the void .
There were more glimpses of the past that few <unk> in this age would notice .
The arrangement of the reception area behind <unk> slots , space for waiting with its mixture of seats and <unk> lighting , signs directing them to services <unk> , <unk> , <unk> bars , Swimming and other exercise facilities , <unk> rooms , and the like .
Only language and script had changed from ancient times .
Given an understanding of the language , the signs would be recognizable to pre space primitives .
This was a temporary stopping place .
Plenty of security installations .
Some had the look of artifacts from the Scattering .
Ix and Guild had never wasted gold on comeyes and sensors .
A frenetic dance of <unk> in the reception area darting here and there , cleaning , picking up litter , guiding newcomers .
A party of four Ixians had preceded Odrade s group .
She gave them close attention .
How self important yet fearful .
To her Bene Gesserit eye , the people of Ix were always recognizable no matter the disguises .
Basic structure of their society colored its individuals .
Ixians displayed a <unk> attitude toward their science : that political and economic requirements determined permissible research .
That said the innocent naivete of Ixian social dreams had become the reality of bureaucratic <unk> a new aristocracy .
So they were headed into a decline that would not be stopped by whatever accommodation this Ixian party made with Honored Matres .
No matter the outcome of our contest , Ix is dying .
Witness : no great Ixian innovations in centuries .
Suipol returned .
They ask us to wait for an escort .
Odrade decided to start negotiations immediately with a chat for the benefit of Suipol , the comeyes , and listeners on her no ship .
Suipol , did you notice those Ixians ahead of us ?
Yes , Mother Superior .
Mark them well .
They are products of a dying society .
It is naive to expect any bureaucracy to take brilliant innovations and put them to good use .
<unk> ask different questions .
Do you know what those are ?
No , Mother Superior .
Spoken after a searching look at their surroundings .
She knows !
But she sees what I m doing .
What have we here ?
I ve misjudged her .
These are typical questions , Suipol : Who gets the credit ?
Who will be blamed if it causes problems ?
Will it shift the power structure , costing us jobs ?
Or will it make some <unk> department more important ?
Suipol nodded on cue but her glance at the comeyes might have been a little obvious .
No matter .
These are political questions , Odrade said .
They demonstrate how motives of bureaucracy are directly opposed to the need for adapting to change .
<unk> is a prime requirement for life to survive .
Time to talk directly to our hosts .
Odrade turned her attention upward , picking a prominent comeye in a chandelier .
Note those Ixians .
Their mind ina deterministic universe has given way to mind in an unlimited universe where anything may happen .
Creative anarchy is the path to survival in this universe .
Thank you for this lesson , Mother Superior .
Bless you , Suipol .
After all of their experiences with us , Suipol said , surely they no longer question our loyalty to one another .
Fates preserve her !
This one Is ready for the Agony and may never see it .
Odrade could only agree with the acolyte s summation .
<unk> with Bene Gesserit ways came from within , from those constantly monitored details that kept their own house in order .
It was not philosophical but a pragmatic view of free will .
Any claim the Sisterhood might have to making its own way in a hostile universe lay in scrupulous adherence to mutual loyalty , an agreement forged in the Agony .
Chapterhouse and its few remaining subsidiaries were <unk> of an order founded in sharing and Sharing .
Not based on innocence .
That had been lost long ago .
It was set firmly in political consciousness and a view of history independent of other laws and customs .
We are not machines , Odrade said , glancing at the automata around them .
We always rely on personal relationships , never knowing where those may lead us .
Tamalane stepped to Odrade s side .
Don t you think they should be sending us a message at the very least ?
They &apos;ve already sent us a message , Tam , putting us up in a second class hostelry .
And &#124; have responded .
Ultimately , all things are known because you want to believe you know .
ZENSUNNI <unk> Te took a deep breath .
<unk> u lay directly ahead , precisely where his navigators had said it would be when they emerged from foldspace .
He stood beside a watchful Streggi seeing this in displays of his flagship s command bay .
Streggi did not like it that he stood on his own feet instead of riding her shoulders .
She felt superfluous amidst military hardware .
Her gaze kept going to the multi projection fields at command bay center .
Aides moving efficiently in and out of pods and fields , bodies draped with esoteric hardware , knew what they were doing .
She had only the vaguest idea of these functions .
The comboard to relay Teg s orders lay under his palms , riding there on suspensors .
Its command field formed a faint blue glow around his hands .
The silvery horseshoe linking him to the attack force rested lightly on his shoulders , feeling familiar there in spite of being much larger relative to his small body than comlinks of his previous lifetime .
None of those around him any longer questioned that this was their famous Bashar in a child s body .
They took his orders with brisk acceptance .
The target system looked ordinary from this distance : a sun and its captive planets .
But Gammu in center focus was not ordinary .
Idaho had been born there , his ghola trained there , his original memories restored there .
And I was changed there .
Teg had no explanation for what he had found in himself under the stresses of survival on Gammu .
Physical speed that drained his flesh and an ability to see no ships , to locate them in an image field like a block of space reproduced in his mind .
He suspected a wild outcropping in Atreides genes .
<unk> cells had been identified in him but not their purpose .
It was the heritage Bene Gesserit Breeding Mistresses had meddled with for eons .
There was little doubt they would view this ability as something potentially dangerous to them .
They might use it but he would certainly lose his freedom .
He put these reflections out of his mind .
Send in the decoys .
Action !
Teg felt himself assume a familiar stance .
There was a sense of climbing onto a refreshing eminence when planning ended .
<unk> had been articulated , alternatives carefully worked out , and subordinates deployed , all thoroughly briefed .
His key squad leaders had committed Gammu to memory where <unk> help might be available , every bolt hole , every known <unk> and which access routes were most vulnerable .
He had warned them especially about Futars .
The possibility that humanoid beasts might be allies could not be overlooked .
Rebels who had helped ghola <unk> escape from Gammu had insisted Futars were created to hunt and kill Honored Matres .
Knowing the accounts of Dortujla and others , you could almost pity Honored Matres if this were true , except that no pity could be spared for those who never showed it to others .
The attack was taking its designed shape scout ships laying down a decoy <unk> and heavy carriers moving into strike position .
Teg became now what he thought of as the instrument of my instruments .
It was difficult to determine which commanded and which responded .
Now , the delicate part .
Unknowns were to be feared .
A good commander kept that firmly in mind .
There were always unknowns .
Decoys were nearing the defensive perimeter .
He saw enemy no ships and foldspace sensors bright dots arrayed through his awareness .
Teg superimposed this onto the positions of his force .
Every order he gave must appear to originate from a battle plot they all shared .
He felt thankful Murbella had not joined him .
Any Reverend Mother might see through his deception .
But no one had questioned Odrade s order that Murbella wait with her party at a safe distance .
<unk> Mother Superior .
Guard this one well .
Explosive <unk> of decoys began with a random display of brilliant flashes around the planet .
He leaned forward , staring at projections .
There s the pattern !
There was no such pattern but his words created belief and pulses quickened .
No one questioned that the Bashar had seen vulnerability in the defenses .
His hands flashed over the comboard , sending his ships forward in a blazing display that littered space behind them with enemy fragments .
All right !
Let s go !
He fed the flagship s course directly into Navigation , then turned full attention to Fire Control .
Silent explosions dotted Space around them as the flagship mopped up surviving elements of Gammu s perimeter guardians .
More decoys !
he ordered .
<unk> of white light blinked in the projection fields .
Attention in the command bay concentrated on the fields , not on their Bashar .
The unexpected !
Teg , <unk> famous for that , was confirming his reputation .
I find this oddly romantic , Streggi said .
<unk> ?
No romance in this !
The time for romance was past and yet to come .
A certain aura might surround plans for violence .
He accepted that .
Historians created their own brand of drama <unk> romance .
But now ?
This was adrenaline time !
Romance distracted you from necessities .
You had to be cold inside , a clear and <unk> line between mind and body .
As his hands moved in the comboard s field , Teg realized what had driven Streggi to speak .
Something primitive about the death and destruction being created here .
This was a moment cut out of normal order .
A disturbing return to ancient tribal patterns .
She sensed a tom tom in her breast and voices chanting : Kill !
KIN !
KIN !
His vision of guardian no ships showed survivors fleeing in panic .
Good !
Panic has a way of spreading and weakening your enemies .
There s Barony .
Idaho had converted him to the old Harkonnen name for the sprawling city with its giant black <unk> of plasteel .
We &apos;ll land on the Flat to the north .
He spoke the words but his hands gave the orders .
Quickly now !
For brief moments when they disgorged troops , no ships were visible and vulnerable .
He held elements of the entire force responsive to his comboard and responsibility was heavy .
This is only a feint .
We go in and out after inflicting serious damage .
Junction is our real target .
Odrade s parting admonition lay there in memory .
Honored Matres must be taught a lesson such as never before .
Attack us and you get hurt badly .
<unk> us and the pain can be enormous .
They ve heard about Bene Gesserit punishments .
We &apos;re notorious .
No doubt Spider Queen <unk> a bit .
You must <unk> that <unk> down her throat !
Quit ship !
This was the vulnerable moment .
Space above them remained empty of threat but fire lances arced inward from the east .
His gunners could handle those .
He concentrated on the possibility that enemy no ships might return for a suicide attack .
Command bay projections showed his hammerships and troop carriers pouring from the holds .
The shock force , an armored elite on suspensors , already had the perimeter secured .
There went the portable comeyes to spread his field of observation and relay the intimate details of violence .
Communication , the key to responsive command , but it also displayed bloody destruction .
All clear !
The signal rang through the bay .
He lifted off the Flat and repositioned in full invisibility .
Now , only the comlinks gave defenders a clue to his position and that was masked by decoy relays .
Projection displayed the monstrous rectangle of the ancient Harkonnen center .
It had been built as a block of light absorbing metal to confine slaves .
The elite had lived in garden mansions on top .
Honored Matres had returned it to its former oppression .
Three of his giant hammerships came into view .
Clear the top of that thing !
he ordered .
<unk> it clean but do as little damage as possible to the structure .
He knew his words were superfluous but spoke for the release .
Everyone in the attack force knew what he wanted .
Relay reports !
he ordered .
Information began flowing from the horseshoe on his shoulders .
He brought it up on secondary .
Comeyes showed his troops clearing the perimeter .
Battle overhead and on the ground was well in hand for at least fifty klicks out .
Going far better than he had expected .
So Honored Matres kept their heavy stuff off planet , not anticipating bold attack .
A familiar attitude and he had Idaho to thank for predicting it .
They &apos;re power blind .
They think heavy armor is for space and only light stuff for the ground .
Heavy weapons are brought down as needed .
No sense keeping them on planet .
<unk> too much energy .
Besides , awareness of all that heavy stuff up there has a quieting effect on captive populations .
Idaho s concepts of weaponry were devastating .
We tend to fix our minds on what we believe we know .
A projectile is a projectile even when <unk> to contain poisons or <unk> .
<unk> in protective equipment improved mobility .
Built into uniforms where possible .
And Idaho had brought back the shield with its awesome destruction when struck by a lasgun beam .
Shields on suspensors hidden in what appeared to be soldiers ( but were actually inflated uniforms ) spread out ahead of troops .
Lasgun fire at them produced clean atomics to clear large areas .
Will Junction be this easy ?
Teg doubted it .
Necessity enforced quick adaptation to new methods .
They could have shields on Junction in two days .
And no inhibitions about how to employ them .
Shields had dominated the Old Empire , he knew , because of that oddly important set of words called Great Convention .
<unk> people did not misuse weapons of their feudal society .
If you dishonored the Convention , your peers turned against you with united violence .
More than that , there had been the <unk> , Face , that some called Pride .
Face !
My position in the pack .
More important to some than life itself .
This is costing us very little , Streggi said .
She was becoming quite the battle analyst and much too banal for Teg s liking .
Streggi meant they were losing few lives but perhaps she spoke <unk> than she knew .
It s difficult to think of cheap devices doing the job , Idaho had said .
But that s a powerful weapon .
If your weapons cost only a small fraction of the energy your enemy spent , you had a potent lever that could prevail against seemingly overwhelming odds .
<unk> the conflict and you wasted enemy substance .
Your foe toppled because control of production and workers was lost .
We can begin to pull out , he said turning away from the projections as his hands repeated the order .
I want casualty reports as soon as He broke off and turned at a sudden <unk> .
Murbella ?
Her projection was repeated in all of the bay s fields .
Her voice blared from the images : Why are you disregarding reports from your perimeter ?
She overrode his board and the projections displayed a field commander caught in mid sentence : ... orders , &#124; will have to deny their request .
Repeat , Murbella said .
The field commander s sweaty features turned toward his mobile comeye .
The <unk> compensated and he appeared to look directly into Teg s eyes .
<unk> : &#124; have self styled refugees here asking for asylum .
Their leader says he has an agreement requiring the Sisterhood to honor his request but without orders ... Who is he ?
Teg demanded .
He calls himself Rabbi .
Teg moved to resume control of his comboard .
I don t know of any Wait !
Murbella overrode his board .
How does she do that ?
Again her voice filled the bay .
Bring him and his party to the flagship .
Make it quick .
She silenced the perimeter relay .
Teg was outraged but at a disadvantage .
He chose one of the multiple images and glared at it .
How dare you interfere ?
Because you don t have the proper data .
The Rabbi is within his rights .
Prepare to receive him with honors .
Explain .
No !
There s no need for you to know .
But it was proper for me to make this decision when &#124; saw you were not responding .
That commander was in a diversionary area !
Not important to But the Rabbi s request has priority .
You &apos;re as bad as Mother Superior !
Perhaps worse .
Now hear me !
Get those refugees into your flagship .
And prepare to receive me .
Absolutely not !
You are to stay where you are !
Bashar !
There s something about this request that demands a Reverend Mother s attention .
He says they are in peril because they gave temporary sanctuary to the Reverend Mother Lucilla .
Accept this or step down .
Then let me get my people aboard and pull back first .
We &apos;ll rendezvous when we &apos;re clear .
Agreed .
But treat those refugees with courtesy .
Now , get off my projections .
You ve blinded me and that was foolish !
You have everything well in hand , Bashar .
During this <unk> another of our ships accepted four Futars .
They came asking that we take them to Handlers but &#124; ordered them confined .
Treat them with extreme caution .
The bay s projections resumed battle status .
Teg once more called in his force .
He was seething and it was minutes before he restored a sense of command .
Did Murbella know how she undermined his authority ?
Or should he take this as a measure of the importance she attached to the refugees ?
When the situation was secure , he turned the bay over to an aide and , riding on Streggi s shoulders , went to see these important refugees .
What was so vital about them that Murbella risked interference ?
They were in a troop carrier hold , a congealed party held apart by a cautious commander .
Who knows what may be concealed among these unknowns ?
The Rabbi , identifiable because he was being deferred to by the field commander , stood with a brown robed woman at the near side of his people .
He was a small , bearded man wearing a white <unk> .
Cold light made him appear ancient .
The woman shielded her eyes with a hand .
The Rabbi was speaking and his words became audible as Teg approached .
The woman was under verbal attack !
The prideful one will be brought low !
Without removing her hand from its defensive position , the woman said : I am not proud of what &#124; carry .
Nor of the powers this knowledge may bring you ?
With knee pressure , Teg ordered Streggi to stop them about ten paces away .
His commander glanced at Teg but stayed in position , ready to act defensively if this should prove to be a diversion .
Good man .
The woman bent her head even lower and pressed her hand against her eyes when she spoke .
Are we not offered knowledge that we might use it in holy service ?
Daughter !
The Rabbi held himself stiffly erect .
Whatever we may learn that we may better serve , it never can be a great thing .
All we call knowledge , were it to encompass everything a <unk> heart could hold , all of that would be no more than one seed in the furrows .
Teg felt reluctant to interfere .
What an archaic way of speaking .
This pair fascinated him .
The other refugees listened to the exchange with rapt attention .
Only Teg s field commander appeared aloof , keeping his attention on the strangers and giving an occasional hand signal to aides .
The woman kept her head respectfully lowered and the Shielding hand in place but she still defended herself .
Even a seed lost in the furrows may bring forth life .
The Rabbi &apos;s lips tightened into a grim line , then : Without water and care , which is to say , without the blessing and the word , there is no life .
A great sigh shook the woman s shoulders but she held herself in that oddly submissive position when she responded : Rabbi , &#124; hear and obey .
Still , &#124; must honor this knowledge that has been thrust upon me because it contains the very admonition you have just voiced .
The Rabbi placed a hand on her shoulder .
Then convey it to those who want it and may no evil enter where you go .
Silence told Teg the argument had ended .
He urged Streggi forward .
Before she could move , Murbella strode past and nodded to the Rabbi while keeping her gaze on the woman .
In the name of the Bene Gesserit and our debt to you , &#124; welcome you and give you sanctuary , Murbella said .
The brown robed woman lowered her hand and Teg saw contact lenses glittering in the palm .
She lifted her head then and there were gasps all around .
The woman s eyes were the total blue of spice addiction but they also held that inner force marking one who had survived the Agony .
Murbella made instant identification .
A wild Reverend Mother !
Not since Dune s Fremen days had one of these been known .
The woman curtsied to Murbella .
I am called Rebecca .
And &#124; am filled with joy to be with you .
The Rabbi thinks &#124; am a silly goose but I have a golden egg for &#124; carry Lampadas : seven million six hundred twenty two thousand and fourteen Reverend Mothers and they are rightfully yours .
Answers are a perilous grip on the universe .
They can appear sensible yet explain nothing .
THE ZENSUNNI WHIP s the wait for their promised escort lengthened , Odrade became first angry and then amused .
Finally , she began following lobby robos , interfering with their movements .
Most were small and none appeared humanoid .
<unk> .
<unk> of Ixian <unk> .
Busy , busy , busy little <unk> to a <unk> at Junction or its equivalent anywhere .
They were so commonplace that few people noticed them .
Since they were not capable of dealing with deliberate interference , they subsided into motionless humming .
Honored Matres have little or no sense of humor .
&#124; know , Murbella .
&#124; know .
But do they get my message ?
Dortujla obviously did .
She came out of her <unk> and watched these antics with a wide grin .
Tam looked <unk> but <unk> .
Suipol was delighted .
Odrade had to restrain her from helping to immobilize the devices .
Let me do the <unk> , child .
&#124; know what is in store for me .
When she was sure she had made her point , Odrade took a position under one of the chandeliers .
<unk> me , Tam , she said .
Tamalane <unk> placed herself in front of Odrade with an attentive expression .
Have you noticed , Tam , that modern <unk> tend to be quite small ?
Tamalane spared a glance for her surroundings .
<unk> once were large , Odrade said .
To provide a <unk> feeling of space for the powerful , and <unk> others with your importance , of course .
Tamalane caught the spirit of Odrade s playlet and said : These days you re important if you travel at all .
Odrade looked at the immobilized robos scattered across the lobby floor .
Some hummed and jittered .
Others waited quietly for someone or some thing to restore order .
The autoreceptionist , a phallic tube of black plaz with a single glittering comeye , came out from behind its cage and picked its way through the stalled robos to confront Odrade .
Much too humid today .
It had a <unk> feminine voice .
Don t know what Weather is thinking of .
Odrade spoke past it to Tamalane .
Why do they have to program these <unk> to simulate friendly humans ?
It s obscene , Tamalane agreed .
She <unk> shouldered the autoreceptionist aside and it swiveled to study the source of this intrusion but made no other move .
Odrade was suddenly aware she had touched on the force that had powered the Butlerian <unk> mob motivation .
My own prejudice !
She studied the mechanical confronting them .
Was it waiting for instructions or must she address the thing directly ?
Four more robos entered the lobby and Odrade recognized her party s luggage piled on them .
All of our things carefully inspected , I m sure .
<unk> where you will .
We carry no hint of our legions .
The four scurried along the edge of the room and found their passage blocked by the ones rendered motionless .
The luggage robos stopped and waited for this unique state of affairs to be sorted out .
Odrade smiled at them .
There go the signs of the transient concealing our secret selves .
<unk> and secret .
Words to annoy the watchers .
Come on , Tam !
You know the ploy .
<unk> that enormous content of unconsciousness , arouse feelings of guilt they will be incapable of recognizing .
Give them the <unk> the way &#124; did with the robos .
Make them wary .
What are the real powers of these Bene Gesserit witches ?
Tamalane took her cue .
<unk> and secret selves .
She explained for the comeyes in tones one used with children .
What do you carry when you leave your nest ?
Are you one who tries to pack it all ?
Or do you prune to necessities ?
What would the watchers classify as necessities ?
Tools of <unk> and <unk> or replaceable clothing ?
Weapons ?
They sought those in our luggage .
But Reverend Mothers tend not to carry visible weapons .
What an ugly place this is , Dortujla said , joining Tamalane in front of Odrade and picking up on the drama .
You would almost think it deliberate .
Ahhh , you nasty watchers .
Observe Dortujla .
Remember her ?
Why has she returned when she must know what you might do to her ?
Food for Futars ?
See how little that concerns her ?
A transition point , Dortujla , Odrade said .
Most people would never want this as their destination .
An inconvenience , and the small <unk> serve only to remind you of that .
A wayside stop , and it will never be much more unless they completely rebuild , Dortujla said .
Would they hear ?
Odrade aimed a look of utter composure at the selected comeye .
This is ugliness that betrays intent .
It says to us : We will provide something for the stomach , a bed , a place to evacuate <unk> and bowels , a place to conduct the little maintenance rituals flesh requires , but you will be gone quickly because all we really want is the energy you leave behind .
The autoreceptionist backed around Tamalane and Dortujla , once more trying to make contact with Odrade .
You will send us to our quarters immediately !
Odrade said , glaring into the <unk> eye .
Dear me !
We ve been <unk> .
Where had they found that <unk> voice ?
<unk> .
But Odrade was on her way out of the lobby in less than a minute , luggage on its robos ahead of them , Suipol close behind , Tamalane and Dortujla following .
There was an air of neglect to one wing clearly visible as they passed it .
Did that mean Junction s traffic had declined ?
Interesting .
Shutters had been sealed along an entire corridor .
Hiding something ?
In the resulting gloom she detected dust on floor and ledges with only a few tracks of maintenance <unk> .
Concealment of what lay outside those windows ?
Unlikely .
This had been closed off for some time .
She detected a pattern in what was being maintained .
Very little traffic .
Honored Matre effect .
Who dared move around much when it felt safer to dig in and pray you would not be noticed by dangerous <unk> ?
<unk> lanes to elite private quarters were being kept up .
Only the best was being maintained at its best .
When Gammu s refugees arrive , there will be room .
In the lobby , a <unk> had handed Suipol a guide pulser .
To find your way later .
Round blue ball with a yellow arrow floating in it to point your chosen way .
Rings a tiny bell when you arrive .
The pulser s tiny bell rang .
And where have we arrived ?
Another place where their hosts had provided every luxury while keeping it repellent .
Rooms with soft yellow floors , pale mauve walls , white ceilings .
No chairdogs .
Be thankful for that even though the absence spoke of economics rather than care for a guest s preferences .
<unk> required sustenance and expensive staff .
She saw furnishings with <unk> fabrics .
And behind the fabrics She felt plastic resilience .
Everything done in the other colors of the rooms .
The bed was a small shock .
Someone had taken the request for a hard mat too literally .
Flat surface of black plaz without cushion .
No <unk> .
Suipol , seeing this , started to object but Odrade silenced her .
Despite Bene Gesserit resources , comfort sometimes fell by the wayside .
Get the job done !
That was their first order .
If Mother Superior had to sleep occasionally on a hard surface without covers , this could be passed off in the name of duty .
Besides , the Bene Gesserit had ways of adjusting to such inconsequentials .
Odrade steeled herself to discomfort , aware that if she objected she might find another deliberate insult .
Let them add this to all of that unconscious content and worry about it .
Her summons came while she was inspecting the rest of their quarters , displaying minimal concern and open amusement .
A voice piped through ceiling vents intruded as Odrade and her companions emerged into the common sitting room : Return to the lobby where you will meet your escort to Great Honored Matre .
I will go alone , Odrade said , silencing objections .
A green robed Honored Matre waited on a fragile chair where the corridor entered the lobby .
She had a face built up like a castle wall stone laid on stone .
Mouth a <unk> through which she inhaled some liquid via a transparent straw .
Flow of purple up the straw .
<unk> odor in the liquid .
The eyes were weapons <unk> over ramparts .
Nose : a Slope down which eyes dispatched their hatred .
Chin : weak .
Not necessary , that chin .
An <unk> .
Something left over from earlier construction .
You could see the infant in it .
And hair : <unk> darkened to muddy brown .
Unimportant .
Eyes , nose , and mouth , those were important .
The woman stood slowly , insolently , emphasizing what a favor she did merely by noticing Odrade .
Great Honored Matre agrees to see you .
Heavy , almost masculine voice .
Pride walled up so high she exposed it whatever she did .
<unk> solid with immovable prejudice .
She knew so many things she was a walking display of ignorance and fears .
Odrade saw her as a perfect demonstration of Honored Matre vulnerability .
At the end of many turnings and corridors , all of them bright and clean , they came to a long room sun pouring in a line of windows , sophisticated military console at one end ; space maps and terrain maps projected there .
Center of Spider Queen s web ?
Odrade entertained doubts .
<unk> too obvious .
Something of different design from the Scattering but no mistaking its purpose .
<unk> that humans could manipulate had physical limits , and a hood for mental interface could be nothing else even though it was a towering oval shape and a peculiar dirty yellow .
She swept her gaze over the room .
<unk> furnished .
A few slingchairs and small tables , a large open area where ( presumably ) people could await orders .
No clutter .
This was Supposed to be an action center .
<unk> that upon the witch !
Windows on one long wall revealed flagstones and gardens beyond .
This whole thing was a set piece !
Where is Spider Queen ?
Where does she sleep ?
What is the appearance of her lair ?
Two women came in through an arched doorway from the flagstones .
Both wore red robes with glittering arabesques and dragon shapes on them .
Soostones shattered for decorations .
Odrade held her silence , exercising caution until after introductions by the escort , who uttered as few words as possible and left hurriedly .
Without Murbella s hints , the tall one standing beside Spider Queen was the one Odrade would have taken for commander .
But it was the smaller one .
Fascinating .
This one did not just climb to power .
She <unk> between the cracks .
One day , her Sisters awoke to accomplished fact .
There she was , firmly seated at the center .
And who could object ?
Ten minutes after leaving her you would have difficulty remembering the target of your objections .
The two women examined Odrade with equal intensity .
Well and good .
That is needed at this moment .
Spider Queen s appearance was more than a Surprise .
Until this moment , no physical description of her had been achieved by the Bene Gesserit .
Only temporary projections , imaginative constructs based on scattered bits of evidence .
Here she was , finally .
A small woman .
Expected stringy muscles visible under red leotards beneath her robe .
Face a forgettable oval with bland brown eyes , orange flecks dancing in them .
Fearful and angered by it but cannot place the precise reasons for her fear .
All she has Is a target me .
What does she think to gain from me ?
The aide was something else : in appearance , far more dangerous .
Golden hair so carefully <unk> , slight hook to the nose , thin lips , skin stretched tightly over high cheekbones .
And that venemous glare .
Odrade passed her gaze once more over Spider Queen s features : a nose that some would have trouble describing a minute after leaving her .
Straight ?
Well , somewhat .
<unk> a match to straw colored hair .
The mouth opened to become <unk> visible and almost vanished when closed .
It was a face in which you had difficulty finding a central focus and thus the entire thing became blurred .
So you lead the Bene Gesserit .
Voice equally low key .
Oddly <unk> Galach and no jargon , yet you sensed it just behind her tongue .
Linguistic tricks were there .
Murbella s knowledge emphasized that .
They have something close to Voice .
Not the equal of what you gave me but there are other things they do , word tricks of a sort .
Word tricks .
How should &#124; address you ?
Odrade asked .
&#124; hear you call me the Spider Queen .
Orange flecks dancing viciously in her eyes .
Here at the center of your web and considering your vast powers , &#124; m afraid &#124; must confess to it .
So that is what you notice my powers .
<unk> !
The first thing Odrade actually had marked was the woman s smell .
She was bathed in some outrageous perfume .
Covering up pheromones ?
Warned about Bene Gesserit ability to judge on the basis of minuscule sense data ?
Perhaps .
Just as probably she preferred this perfume .
The odious concoction had about it an underlying hint of exotic flowers .
Something from her homeland ?
The Spider Queen put a hand to her forgettable chin .
You may call me Dama .
The companion objected .
This is the last enemy in the Million Planets !
So that s how they think of the Old Empire .
Dama held up a hand for silence .
How casual and how revealing .
Odrade saw a luster reminiscent of Bellonda in the aide s eyes .
<unk> watchful in there and looking for places to attack .
Most are required to address me as Great Honored Matre , Dama said .
I have conferred an honor upon you .
She gestured toward the arched doorway behind her .
We will walk outside , just the two of us , while we talk .
No invitation ; it was a command .
Odrade paused beside the door to look at a map displayed there .
Black on white , little lines of paths and irregular outlines with labels in Galach .
It was the gardens beyond the flagstones , identification of plantings .
Odrade bent close to study it while Dama waited with amused tolerance .
Yes , esoteric trees and bushes , very few bearing edible fruits .
Pride of possession and this map was here to emphasize it .
On the patio , Odrade said : I noticed your perfume .
Dama was thrown back into memories and her voice carried subtle undertones when she responded .
Floral identity marker for her own <unk> .
Imagine that !
But she is both sad and angry when she thinks of this .
And she wonders why I bring it to attention .
Otherwise , the bush would not have accepted me , Dama said .
Interesting choice of <unk> tense .
The accented Galach was not hard to understand .
She obviously adjusted unconsciously for the listener .
Good ear .
<unk> a few seconds , watching , listening and adjusts to make herself understood .
Very old art form that most humans adopt quickly .
Odrade saw the origins as protective coloration .
Don t want to be taken for an alien .
An <unk> characteristic built into the genes .
Honored Matres had not lost it but this was a vulnerability .
Unconscious <unk> were not completely covered and they revealed much .
Despite her blatant vanity , Dama was intelligent and self disciplined .
It was a pleasure to come to that opinion .
Certain circumlocutions were not necessary .
Odrade stopped where Dama stopped at the edge of the patio .
They stood almost shoulder to shoulder and Odrade , <unk> outward at the garden , was struck by the almost Bene Gesserit appearance .
Speak your piece , Dama said .
What value do &#124; have as a hostage ?
Odrade asked .
Orange glare !
You &apos;ve obviously asked the question , Odrade said .
Do continue .
Orange subsiding .
The Sisterhood has three replacements for me .
Odrade produced her most penetrating stare .
It is possible for us to weaken each other in ways that would destroy us both .
We could crush you as we would <unk> an insect !
Beware the orange !
Odrade was not deflected by warnings from within .
But the hand that swatted us would fester , and eventually , sickness would consume you .
It could not be stated <unk> without specific details .
Impossible !
An orange glare .
Do you think us unaware of how you were driven back here by your enemies ?
My most dangerous gambit .
Odrade watched it take effect .
A dark scowl was not Dama s only visible response .
Orange vanished , leaving her eyes an oddly bland discrepancy on the glowering face .
Odrade nodded as though Dama had answered .
We could leave you vulnerable to those who assail you , those who drove you into this cul de sac .
You think we ... We know .
At least , now &#124; know .
The knowledge produced both elation and fear .
What is out there to subdue these women ?
We merely gather our forces before Before returning to an arena where you are sure to be crushed ... where you cannot count on overwhelming numbers .
Dama s voice relapsed into soft Galach that Odrade had difficulty understanding .
So they have been to you ... and made their offer .
What fools you are to trust the ...
I have not said we trust .
If Logno back there .. .
<unk> of head indicating the aide in the room ... heard you talking to me this way you would be dead in less time than I take to warn you of it .
I am fortunate there are only the two of us .
Don t count on that to carry you much farther .
Odrade glanced over her shoulder at the building .
<unk> in Guild design were visible : a long fa  ade of windows , much exotic wood and jeweled stones .
Wealth .
She was dealing with wealth in an extreme it would be hard for some to imagine .
Nothing Dama wanted , nothing that could be provided by the society subservient to her , would be denied .
Nothing except freedom to go back into the Scattering .
How firmly did Dama cling to the fantasy that her exile might end ?
And what was the force that had driven such power back to the Old Empire ?
Why here ?
Odrade dared not ask .
We will continue this in my quarters , Dama said .
Into the Spider Queen s lair at last !
Dama s quarters were a bit of a puzzle .
<unk> carpeted floors .
She kicked off sandals and went <unk> on entering .
Odrade followed this lead .
Look at the <unk> flesh along the outsides of her feet !
Dangerous weapons kept well conditioned .
Not the soft floor but the room itself puzzled Odrade .
One Small window looking over the carefully manicured botanical garden .
No hangings or pictures on the walls .
No decorations .
An air vent grill drew shadowy stripes above the door they had entered .
One other door on the right .
Another air vent .
Two soft gray couches .
Two small side tables in glistening black .
Another larger table in tones of gold with a green shimmer above it to indicate a control field .
Odrade identified the fine rectangular outline of a projector inset into the golden table .
Ahhhh , this ts her workroom .
Are we here to work ?
A refined concentration about this place .
Care had been taken to eliminate distractions .
What distractions would Dama accept ?
Where are the decorated rooms ?
She has to live in particular ways with her surroundings .
You cannot always be forming mental barriers to reject things around you that sit <unk> in your psyche .
If you want real comfort , your home cannot be set up in a way that attacks you , especially no attacks on the unconscious side .
She is aware of unconscious <unk> !
This one is truly dangerous but she has the power to say Yes .
It was an ancient Bene Gesserit insight .
You looked for the ones who could say Yes .
Never bother with underlings who can only say No .
You sought the one who could make an agreement , sign a contract , pay off on a promise .
Spider Queen did not often say Yes but she had that power and knew it .
&#124; should have realized when she took me aside .
She sent me the first signal when she permitted me to call her Dama .
Have &#124; been too precipitate , setting up Teg s attack in a way &#124; cannot stop ?
Too late for second thoughts .
&#124; knew it when &#124; unleashed him .
But what other forces may we attract ?
Odrade had Dama s dominance pattern registered .
Words and gestures were likely to make Spider Queen <unk> , crouching back to intense awareness of her own heartbeats .
The drama must go forward .
Dama was doing something with her hands in the green field atop the golden table .
She concentrated on it , ignoring Odrade in a way that was both insult and compliment .
You will not interfere , witch , because that is not in your best interest and you know it .
Besides , you are not important enough to distract me .
Dama appeared agitated .
Has the attack on Gammu been successful ?
Are refugees beginning to arrive ?
An orange glare focused on Odrade .
Your pilot has just destroyed himself and your ship rather than submit to our inspection .
What did you bring ?
<unk> .
There is a signal coming from you !
Telling my companions whether &#124; am alive or dead .
You already knew that .
Some of our ancestors burned their ships before an attack .
No retreat possible .
Odrade spoke with exquisite care , tone and timing adjusted to Dama s responses .
If &#124; am successful , you will provide my transport .
My pilot was a Cyborg and shere could not protect him from your probes .
His orders were to kill himself rather than fall into your hands .
Providing us with coordinates to your planet .
The orange subsided from Dama s eyes , but she still was disturbed .
I did not think your people obeyed you to that extent .
How do you hold them without sexual bonding , witch ?
Is the answer not obvious ?
We have secret powers .
Careful now , Odrade cautioned herself .
A methodical approach , alert for new demands .
Let her think we choose one method of response and stick to it .
How much does she know about us ?
She does not know that even Mother Superior may be only a morsel of bait , a lure to gain vital information .
Does that make us superior ?
If so , can superior training surmount superior soeed and numbers ?
Odrade had no answer .
Dama seated herself behind the golden table , leaving Odrade standing .
There was a nesting sense about the movement .
She did not leave this place often .
This was the true center of her web .
All things she thought she needed were here .
She had brought Odrade to this room because it was an inconvenience to be elsewhere .
She was uncomfortable in other settings , perhaps even felt threatened .
Dama did not court danger .
She had done so once but that was long ago , shut off behind her somewhere .
Now , she wanted only to sit here in a safe and well organized cocoon where she could manipulate others .
Odrade found these observations a welcome <unk> of Bene Gesserit deductions .
The Sisterhood knew how to exploit this leverage .
Have you nothing more to say ?
Dama asked .
<unk> for time .
Odrade ventured a question .
I am extremely curious why you agreed to this meeting ?
Why are you curious ?
It seems so ... so out of character for you .
We determine what is in character for us !
Quite <unk> there .
But what is it about us interests you ?
You think we find you interesting ?
Perhaps you even find us remarkable , because that is certainly how we look at you .
A pleased expression made its fleeting appearance on Dama s face .
I knew you would be fascinated by us .
The exotic interests the exotic , Odrade said .
This brought a knowing smile to Dama s lips , the smile of someone whose pet has been clever .
She stood and went to the one window .
<unk> Odrade to her side , Dama gestured to a stand of trees beyond the first flowering bushes and spoke in that soft accent so difficult to follow .
Something <unk> off an inner alarm .
Odrade fell into simulflow , seeking the source .
Something in the room or in Spider Queen ?
There was a lack of spontaneity about the setting matched by much that Dama did .
So all of this was designed to create an effect .
Carefully schemed .
Is this one really my Spider Queen ?
Or is there a more powerful one watching us ?
Odrade explored this thought , sorting swiftly .
It was a process that provided more questions than answers , a mental <unk> akin to that of Mentats .
<unk> for relevance and bring up the latent ( but orderly ) backgrounds .
Order generally was a product of human activity .
Chaos existed as raw material from which to create order .
That was the Mentat approach , giving no <unk> truths but a remarkable lever for decision making : orderly assemblage of data in a non discrete system .
She arrived at a <unk> .
They revel in chaos !
<unk> it !
<unk> addicts !
So Dama was Dama , Great Honored Matre .
<unk> the patroness , forever the superior .
There is no greater one watching us .
But Dama believes this is bargaining .
One would think she had never done it before .
Precisely !
Dama touched an unmarked place below the window and the wall folded back , revealing that the window was but an artful projection .
The way was opened onto a high balcony paved with dark green tiles .
It overlooked plantations much different from those in the window projection .
Here was chaos preserved , wilderness left to its own devices and made more remarkable by ordered gardens in the distance .
<unk> , fallen trees , thick bushes .
And beyond : evenly spaced rows of what appeared to be vegetables with automated harvesters passing back and forth , leaving bare ground behind them .
Love of chaos , indeed !
Spider Queen smiled and led the way onto the balcony .
As she emerged , Odrade once more was stopped by what she saw .
A decoration on the parapet to her left .
A life size figure shaped from an almost <unk> substance , all <unk> planes and curved surfaces .
When she squinted at the figure , Odrade saw it was intended to represent a human .
Male or female ?
In some positions male , and in some female .
<unk> and curves responded to vagrant breezes .
Thin , almost invisible wires ( looked to be shigawire ) suspended it from a delicately curving tube anchored in a translucent mound .
The lower extremities of the figure almost touched the pebbled surface of the supporting base .
Odrade stared , captivated .
Why does it remind me of Sheeana s The Void ?
When the wind moved it , the whole creation appeared to dance , <unk> sometimes into a graceful walk , then a slow pirouette and sweeping turns with outstretched leg .
It is called <unk> Master , Dama said .
In some winds it will kick its feet high .
&#124; have seen it running as <unk> as a <unk> .
Sometimes it is just ugly little motions , arms jerking as though they held weapons .
Beautiful and ugly it is all the same .
I think the artist <unk> it .
Being Unknown would have been better .
Beautiful and ugly all the same .
Being Unknown .
That was a terrible thing about <unk> s creation .
Odrade felt a cold wash of fear .
Who was the artist ?
I ve no idea .
One of my predecessors took it from a planet we were destroying .
Why does it interest you ?
It s the wild thing no one can govern .
But she said : &#124; presume we &apos;re both seeking a basis for understanding , trying to find similarities between us .
This brought the orange glare .
You may try to understand us but we have no need to understand you .
Both of us come from societies of women .
It is dangerous to think of us as your offshoots !
But Murbella s evidence says you are .
<unk> in the Scattering by Fish Speakers and Reverend Mothers in extremis .
All ingenuous and <unk> nobody , Odrade asked : Why is that dangerous ?
Dama s laugh conveyed no amusement .
Vindictive .
Odrade experienced an abrupt new assessment of danger .
More than a Bene Gesserit probe and review was demanded here .
These women were accustomed to killing when angered .
A reflex .
Dama had said as much when speaking to her aide , and Dama had just signaled there were limits to her tolerance .
Yet , in her own way , she is trying to bargain .
She displays her mechanical marvels , her powers , her wealth .
No offer of alliance .
Be willing servants , witches , our slaves , and we will forgive much .
To gain the last of the Million Planets ?
More than that , certainly , but an interesting number .
With a new caution , Odrade reformed her approach .
Reverend Mothers too easily fell into an adaptive pattern .
/ am , of course , quite different from you but I will unbend for the sake of accord .
That would not do with Honored Matres .
They would accept nothing to suggest they were not in absolute control .
It was a statement of Dama s superiority over her Sisters that she allowed Odrade so much latitude .
Once more , Dama spoke in her imperious manner .
Odrade listened .
How odd that Spider Queen thought one of the most attractive things the Bene Gesserit could provide was immunity from new diseases .
Was that the form of attack that drove them here ?
Her sincerity was naive .
None of this tiresome periodic checking to see if you had acquired secret inhabitants in your flesh .
Sometimes not so secret .
Sometimes <unk> perilous .
But the Bene Gesserit could end all that and would be suitably rewarded .
How pleasant .
Still that vindictive tone in every word .
Odrade caught herself in this thought : Vindictive ?
That did not catch the proper flavor .
Something carried at a deeper level .
Unconsciously jealous of what you lost when you broke away from us !
This was another pattern and it had been stylized !
Honored Matres fell back on repetitious mannerisms .
<unk> we abandoned long ago .
This was more than refusal to recognize Bene Gesserit origins .
This was garbage disposal .
Drop your discards wherever they lose your interest .
<unk> take out the garbage .
She is more concerned with the next thing she wants to consume than she is with <unk> her own nest .
The Honored Matre flaw was larger than suspected .
Much more deadly to themselves and all they controlled .
And they could not face it because , to them , it was not there .
Never existed .
Dama remained an untouchable paradox .
No question of alliance entered her mind .
She would seem to dance up to it but only to test her enemy .
&#124; was right after all to <unk> Teg .
Logno came out of the workroom with a tray on which stood two spindly glasses almost filled with golden liquid .
Dama took one , sniffed it , and sipped with a pleased expression .
What is that vicious glitter in Logno s eyes ?
Try some of this wine , Dama said , gesturing to Odrade .
It s from a planet I m sure you ve never heard of but where we have concentrated the required elements to produce the perfect golden grape for the perfect golden wine .
Odrade was caught by this long association of humans with their precious ancient drink .
The god Bacchus .
<unk> fermented on the bush or in tribal containers .
It is not poisoned , Dama said as Odrade hesitated .
l assure you .
We kill where it suits our needs but we are not crass .
We reserve our more blatant deadliness for the masses .
&#124; do not mistake you for one of the masses .
Dama chuckled at her own <unk> .
The labored <unk> was almost gross .
Odrade took the proffered glass and sipped .
It s a thing someone devised to please us , Dama said , her attention fixed on Odrade .
The one sip was enough .
Odrade s senses detected a foreign substance and she was several heartbeats identifying its purpose .
To nullify the shere protecting me from their probes .
She adjusted her metabolism to render the substance harmless , then announced what she had done .
Dama glared at Logno .
So that is why none of these things work with the witches !
And you never suspected !
The rage was an almost physical force directed at the <unk> aide .
It is one of the immune systems with which we combat disease , Odrade said .
Dama hurled her glass to the tiles .
She was some time regaining composure .
Logno retreated slowly , holding the tray almost as a Shield .
So Dama did more than sneak into power .
Her Sisters consider her deadly .
And so must I consider her .
Someone will pay for this wasted effort , Dama said .
Her smile was not pleasant .
Someone .
Someone made the wine .
Someone made the dancing figure .
Someone will pay .
The identity was never important , only the pleasure or the need for retribution .
Subservience .
Do not interrupt my thoughts , Dama said .
She went to the parapet and gazed at her Being Unknown , obviously <unk> her bargaining stance .
Odrade turned her attention to Logno .
What was that continued watchfulness , rapt attention fixed on Dama ?
No longer simple fear .
Logno suddenly appeared supremely dangerous .
Poison !
Odrade knew it as certainly as though the aide had shouted the word .
lam not Logno s target .
Not yet .
She has taken this opportunity to make her bid for power .
There was no need to look at Dama .
The moment of Spider Queen s death was visible on Logno s face .
Turning , Odrade confirmed it .
Dama lay in a heap under Being Unknown .
You will call me Great Honored Matre , Logno said .
And you will learn to thank me for it .
She ( pointing at the red heap in the balcony corner ) intended to betray you and exterminate your people .
&#124; have other plans .
&#124; am not one to destroy a useful weapon at the moment of our greatest need .
Battle ?
There s always a desire for breathing space motivating it somewhere .
THE BASHAR TEG urbella watched the struggle for Junction with a detachment that did not reflect her feelings .
She stood with a coterie of Proctors in her no ship s command center , attention fixed on relay projections from groundside comeyes .
There were battles all around Junction bursts of light on <unk> , gray eruptions on <unk> .
A major engagement directed by Teg centered on the Citadel a giant mound of Guild design with a new tower near its rim .
Although Odrade s vital signs transmissions had stopped abruptly , her early reports confirmed that Great Honored Matre was in there .
The need to observe from a distance helped Murbella s sense of detachment but she felt the excitement .
Interesting times !
This ship contained precious cargo .
The millions from Lampadas were being Shared and prepared for Scattering in a suite <unk> reserved for Mother Superior .
The wild Sister with her cargo of Memory dominated their priorities here .
Golden <unk> for sure !
Murbella thought of the lives being risked in that suite .
<unk> for the worst .
No lack of volunteers and the threat in the Junction conflict <unk> need for spice poison to ignite Sharings , reducing danger .
Anyone on this ship could sense all or nothing in Odrade s gamble .
<unk> threat of death was recognized .
Sharing necessary !
Transformation of a Reverend Mother into sets of memories passed around at perilous cost among the Sisters no longer carried a mysterious aura for her , but Murbella still was awed by the responsibility .
The courage of Rebecca ... and Lucilla !
... demanded admiration .
Millions of Memory Lives !
All concentrated in what the Sisterhood called Extremis <unk> , two by two then four by four and sixteen by sixteen , until each held all of them and any survivor could preserve the precious accumulation .
What they were doing in Mother Superior s suite had some of that flavor .
The concept no longer terrified Murbella but it was not yet ordinary .
Odrade s words comforted .
Once you have fully <unk> to the bundles of Other Memory , all else falls into a perspective that is utterly familiar , as though you had known it always .
Murbella recognized that Teg was prepared to die in defense of this multiple awareness that was the Sisterhood of the Bene Gesserit .
Can &#124; do less ?
Teg , no longer completely an enigma , remained an object of respect .
Odrade Within amplified this with reminders of his exploits , then : / wonder how I m doing down there ?
Ask .
<unk> said , No word .
But her transmissions may have been blocked by energy shielding .
They knew who really asked the question .
It was on their faces .
She has Odrade !
Murbella again focused on the battle at the Citadel .
Her own reactions surprised Murbella .
Everything colored by historical disgust at repetition of war s nonsense , but still this exuberant spirit reveling in newly acquired Bene Gesserit abilities .
Honored Matre forces had good weapons down there , she noted , and Teg s heat absorption pads were taking punishment but even as she watched , the defensive perimeter collapsed .
She could hear howling as a large Idaho designed <unk> went bouncing down a passage between tall trees , <unk> out defenders right and left .
Other Memory gave her a peculiar comparison .
It was like a circus .
Ships landing , disgorging their human cargoes .
In the center ring !
The Spider Queen !
<unk> never before seen by the human eye !
Odrade s persona produced a sense of amusement .
How s this for closeness of sisterhood ?
Are you dead down there , Dar ?
You must be .
Spider Queen will blame you and be enraged .
Trees placed long afternoon shadows across Teg s lane of attack , she saw .
<unk> cover .
He ordered his people to go around .
Ignore inviting avenues .
Look for hard ways to approach and use them .
The Citadel lay in a gigantic botanical garden , strange trees and even stranger bushes mingled with prosaic plantings , all scattered around as though thrown there by a dancing child .
Murbella found the circus metaphor attractive .
It gave perspective to what she witnessed .
<unk> in her mind .
Over there , dancing animals , defenders of Spider Queen , all bound to obey !
And in the first ring , the main event , <unk> by our <unk> , Miles Teg !
His people do mysterious things .
Here is the talent !
It had aspects of a staged battle in the Roman <unk> .
Murbella appreciated the allusion .
It made observation richer .
Battle towers filled with armored soldiers approach .
They engage .
Flames cut the sky .
Bodies fall .
But these were real bodies , real pains , real deaths .
Bene Gesserit sensitivities forced her to regret the waste .
Is this how it was for my parents caught in the sweep ?
<unk> from Other Memory vanished .
She saw Junction then as she knew Teg must see it .
Bloody violence , familiar in memory and yet new .
She saw attackers advancing , heard them .
Woman s voice , distinct with shock : That bush screamed at me !
Another voice , male : No telling where some of this Originated .
That <unk> stuff burns your skin .
Murbella heard action on the far side of the Citadel but it grew <unk> quiet around Teg s position .
She saw his troops flitting through shadows , closing in on the tower .
There was Teg on Streggi s shoulders .
He took a moment to stare up at the fa  ade confronting them about half a klick away .
She chose a projection that looked where he looked .
Motion behind windows there .
Where were the mysterious last ditch weapons Honored Matres were supposed to possess ?
What will he do now ?
Teg had lost his Command <unk> to a laser hit outside the main engagement area .
The pod lay on its side behind him and he sat astride Streggi s shoulders in a patch of screening bushes , some still smoldering .
He had lost his comboard with the pod but retained the silvery horseshoe of his comlink , although it was crippled without the pod s amplifiers .
Communications specialists crouched nearby , jittering because they had lost close contact with the action .
The battle beyond the buildings grew louder .
He heard hoarse shouts , the high hissing of burners and the lower buzz of large lasguns mingled with <unk> <unk> <unk> of hand weapons .
Somewhere off there to his left was a thrum thrum he recognized as heavy armor in trouble .
A scraping sound with it , metal agony .
Energy system damaged in that one .
It was dragging itself over the ground , probably making a mess of the gardens .
Haker , Teg s personal aide , came dodging down the lane behind the Bashar .
Streggi noticed him first and turned without warning , forcing Teg to look at the man .
Haker , dark and muscular , with heavy eyebrows ( sweat dampened now ) stopped directly in front of Teg and spoke before fully regaining his breath .
We have the last pockets bottled up , Bashar .
Haker raised his voice to override the battle sounds and a buzzing squawker over his left shoulder producing low conversations , battle urgency in clipped tones .
The far perimeter ?
Teg demanded .
<unk> up in half an hour , no more .
You should get out of here , Bashar .
Mother Superior warned us to keep you out of <unk> danger .
Teg gestured at his useless pod .
Why don t !
have a Communications backup ?
A big laze got both backups in the same burn as they were coming in .
They were together ?
Haker heard the anger .
Sir , they were ... No important equipment is sent in together .
l &apos;II want to know who disobeyed orders .
The quiet voice from immature vocal cords carried more menace than a shout .
Yes , Bashar .
<unk> obedient and no sign from Haker that the mistake was his own .
Damn !
How soon will replacements arrive ?
Five minutes .
Get my reserve pod in here as fast as you can .
Teg touched Streggi s neck with a knee .
Haker spoke before she could turn .
Bashar , they got the reserve , too .
I ve ordered another .
Teg repressed a sigh .
These things happened in battle but he didn t like depending on primitive <unk> .
We &apos;ll set up here .
Get more <unk> .
They , at least , had the range .
Haker glanced at the greenery around them .
Here ?
I don t like the look of those buildings up ahead .
That tower commands this area .
And they must have underground access .
&#124; would .
There s nothing on the ... My memory layout doesn t include that tower .
Get <unk> in here to check the ground .
&#124; want our plan brought up to the minute with secure information .
Haker s squawker came alive with an override voice : Bashar !
Is the Bashar available ?
Streggi moved him next to Haker without being told .
Teg took the squawker , whistling his code as he grabbed it .
Bashar , it s a mess at the Flat .
About a hundred of them tried to lift and ran into our screen .
No survivors .
Any sign of Mother Superior or her Spider Queen ?
Negative .
We can t tell .
&#124; mean it s a real mess .
Shall &#124; screen a view ?
Get me a dispatch .
And keep looking for Odrade !
&#124; tell you nothing survived here , Bashar .
There was a click and a low hum , then another voice : Dispatch .
Teg brought his voice print <unk> from beneath his chin and barked quick orders .
<unk> a <unk> over the Citadel .
Put the scene at the Landing Flat and their other disasters on open relay .
All bands .
Make sure they can see it .
Announce no survivors at the Flat .
The double click of received confirmed broke the link .
Haker said : Do you really think you can terrify them ?
<unk> them .
He repeated Odrade s parting words : Their education has been sadly <unk> .
What had happened to Odrade ?
He felt sure she must be dead , perhaps the first casualty here .
She had expected that .
Dead but not lost if Murbella could restrain her impetuosity .
Odrade , at that moment , had Teg in direct sight from the tower .
Logno had silenced her vital signs transmissions with a <unk> shield and had brought her to the tower Shortly after the arrival of the first refugees from Gammu .
No one questioned Logno s supremacy .
A dead Great Honored Matre and a live one could only be something familiar .
Expecting to be killed at any moment , Odrade still gathered data as she went up in a nulltube with guards .
The tube was an artifact from the Scattering , a transparent <unk> in a transparent cylinder .
Few obstructing walls at the floors they passed .
Mostly views of living areas and esoteric hardware Odrade surmised had military purposes .
<unk> evidence of comfort and quiet increased the higher they went .
Power climbs physically as well as psychologically .
Here they were at the top .
A section of the tube cylinder swung outward and a guard pushed her roughly onto a thickly carpeted floor .
The workroom Dama showed me down there was another set piece .
Odrade recognized secrecy .
Equipment and furnishings here would have been almost <unk> were it not for Murbella s knowledge .
So other action centers were for show .
<unk> villages built for Reverend Mother .
Logno lied about Dama s intentions .
&#124; was expected to leave unharmed ... carrying no useful information .
What other lies had they paraded in front of her ?
Logno and all but one guard went to a console on Odrade s right .
<unk> on one foot , Odrade looked around .
This was the real center .
She studied it with care .
Odd place .
An aura of the sanitary .
Treated with chemicals to make it clean .
No bacterial or <unk> <unk> .
No strangers in the blood .
Everything <unk> like a showcase for rare <unk> .
And Dama showed interest in Bene Gesserit immunity to diseases .
There was bacterial warfare in the Scattering .
They want one thing from us !
And just one surviving Reverend Mother would satisfy them if they could wrest information from her .
A full Bene Gesserit cadre would have to examine the strands of this web and see where they led .
If we win .
The operations console where Logno concentrated her attention was smaller than the showcase ones .
<unk> manipulation .
The hood on a low table beside Logno was smaller and transparent , revealing the medusa tangle of probes .
Shigawire for sure .
The hood showed a close affinity to T probes from the Scattering Teg and others had described .
Did these women possess more technological marvels ?
They must .
A glittering wall behind Logno , windows on her left opening onto a balcony , a far vista of Junction visible out there with movement of troops and armor .
She recognized Teg in the distance , a figure on the shoulders of an adult , but gave no sign she saw anything extraordinary .
She continued her slow study .
Door to a passage with another nulltube partly visible in a separate area to her immediate left .
More green tile on the floor there .
Different functions in that space .
A sudden burst of noises erupted beyond the wall .
Odrade identified some of them .
<unk> of soldiers made a distinctive sound on tiles .
<unk> of exotic fabrics .
Voices .
She distinguished accents of Honored Matres responding to each other in tones of shock .
We &apos;re winning !
Shock was to be expected when the invincible were brought low .
She studied Logno .
Would it be a plunge into despair ?
If so , &#124; may survive .
Murbella s role might be changed .
Well , that could wait .
Sisters had been briefed on what to do in the event of victory .
Neither they nor anyone else in the attack force would lay rough hands on an Honored Matre erotic or otherwise .
Duncan had prepared the men , making the perils of sexual entrapment thoroughly known .
Risk no bondage .
<unk> no new <unk> .
The new Spider Queen was revealed now as someone even stranger than Odrade had suspected .
Logno left her console and came to within a pace of Odrade .
You have won this battle .
We are your prisoners .
No orange in her eyes .
Odrade swept her gaze around at the women who had been her guards .
Blank expressions , clear eyes .
Was this how they showed despair ?
It did not feel right .
Logno and the others revealed no expected emotional responses .
Everything under wraps ?
Events of the past hours should create emotional crisis .
Logno gave no sign of it .
Not a twitch of revealing nerve or muscle .
Perhaps a casual concern and that was all .
A Bene Gesserit mask !
It had to be unconscious , something automatic ignited by defeat .
So they did not really accept defeat .
We are still in there with them .
<unk> ... but there !
No wonder Murbella almost died .
She was confronting her own genetic past as a supreme prohibition .
My companions , Odrade said .
The three women who came with me .
Where are they ?
Dead .
Logno s voice was as dead as the word .
Odrade suppressed a pang for Suipol .
Tam and Dortujla had lived long and useful lives , but Suipol ... dead and never Shared .
Another good one lost .
And isn t that a bitter lesson !
I will identify the ones responsible if you desire revenge , Logno said .
Lesson two .
Revenge is for children and the emotionally <unk> .
A small return of orange in Logno s eyes .
Human self delusion took many forms , Odrade reminded herself .
Aware that the Scattering would produce the unexpected , she had armed herself accordingly with a protective remoteness that would allow her a space to assess new places , new things and new people .
She had known she would be forced to put many things in different categories to serve her or deflect threats .
She took Logno s attitude as a threat .
You do not seem disturbed , Great Honored Matre .
Others will avenge me .
Flat , very self composed .
The words were even stranger than her composure .
She held everything under that close cover , bits and pieces revealed now in flickering movements aroused by Odrade s observation .
Deep and intense things , but buried .
It was all inside there , masked the way a Reverend Mother would mask it .
Logno appeared to have no power at all and yet she spoke as though nothing essential had changed .
Lam your captive but that makes no difference .
Was she truly powerless ?
No / But that was the impression she wished to convey and all of the other Honored Matres around her mirrored this response .
See us ?
<unk> except for the loyalty of our Sisters and the followers they have bonded to us .
Were Honored Matres that confident of their vengeful legions ?
Possible only if they had never before suffered a defeat of this kind .
Yet someone had driven them back into the Old Empire .
Into the Million Planets .
Teg found Odrade and her captives while seeking a place to assess victory .
Battle always required its analytical aftermath , especially from a Mentat commander .
It was a comparison test this battle demanded of him more than any other in his experience .
This conflict would not be lodged in memory until assessed and shared as far as possible among those who depended on him .
It was his <unk> pattern and he did not care what it revealed about him .
Break that link of interlocking interests and you prepared yourself for defeat .
&#124; need a quiet place to assemble the threads of this battle and make a preliminary summary .
In his estimation , a most difficult problem of battle was to conduct it in a way that did not release human wildness .
A Bene Gesserit dictum .
Battle must be conducted to bring out the best in those who survived .
Most difficult and sometimes all but impossible .
The more remote the soldier from carnage , the more difficult .
It was one reason Teg always tried to move to the battle scene and examine it personally .
If you did not see the pain , you could easily cause greater pain without second thoughts .
That was the Honored Matre pattern .
But their pains had been brought home .
What would they make of this ?
That question was in his mind as he and aides emerged from the tube to see Odrade confronting a party of Honored Matres .
Here is our commander , the Bashar Miles Teg , Odrade said , gesturing .
Honored Matres stared at Teg .
A child riding on the shoulders of an adult ?
This is their commander ?
Ghola , Logno muttered .
Odrade spoke to Haker .
Take these prisoners somewhere nearby where they can be comfortable .
Haker did not move until Teg nodded , then politely indicated that captives should precede him into the tiled area on their left .
Teg s dominance was not lost on Honored Matres .
They glowered at him as they obeyed Haker s invitation .
Men ordering women about !
With Odrade beside him , Teg touched a knee to Streggi s neck and they went onto the balcony .
There was an oddity to the scene that he was a moment identifying .
He had viewed many battle scenes from high <unk> , most often from a scout thopter .
This balcony was fixed in space , giving him a sense of immediacy .
They stood about one hundred meters above the botanical gardens where much of the <unk> conflict had taken place .
Many bodies lay sprawled in final <unk> dolls thrown aside by departing children .
He recognized uniforms of some of his troops and felt a pang .
Could &#124; have done something to prevent this ?
He had known this feeling many times and called it Command Guilt .
But this scene was different , not just in that uniqueness found in any battle but in a way that nagged at him .
He decided it was partly the <unk> setting , a place better suited to garden parties , now torn by an ancient pattern of violence .
Small animals and birds were returning , nervously furtive after the upset of all that noisy human intrusion .
Little furry creatures with long tails sniffed at casualties and scampered up neighboring trees for no apparent reason .
<unk> birds peered from screening foliage or flitted across the scene lines of blurred pigmentation that became camouflage when they ducked abruptly under leaves .
<unk> accents to the scene , trying to restore that non tranquility human observers <unk> for peace in such settings .
Teg knew better .
In his pre ghola life , he had grown up surrounded by wilderness : farm life close by but wild animals just beyond cultivation .
It was not tranquil out there .
With that observation he recognized what had tugged at his awareness .
Considering the fact they had stormed a well manned defensive <unk> occupied by heavily armed defenders , the number of casualties down there was extremely small .
He had seen nothing to explain this since entering the Citadel .
Were they caught off balance ?
Their losses in Space were one thing his ability to see <unk> ships produced a devastating advantage .
But this complex held prepared positions where defenders could have fallen back and made the assault more costly .
<unk> of Honored Matre resistance had been abrupt and now it remained unexplained .
&#124; was wrong to assume they responded to display of their disasters .
He glanced at Odrade .
That Great Honored Matre in there , did she give the command for defense to stop ?
That s my assumption .
Cautious and a typical Bene Gesserit answer .
She , too , was <unk> the scene to careful observation .
Was her assumption a reasonable explanation for the abruptness with which defenders threw down their arms ?
Why would they do it ?
To prevent more bloodshed ?
Given the callousness Honored Matres usually demonstrated , that was unlikely .
The decision had been made for reasons that plagued him .
A trap ?
Now that he thought about it , there were other strange things about the battle scene .
None of the usual calls from wounded , no scurrying about with cries for <unk> and medics .
He could see Suks moving among the bodies .
That , at least , was familiar , but every figure they examined was left where it had fallen .
All dead ?
No wounded ?
He experienced gripping fear .
Not an unusual fear in battle but he had learned to read it .
Something profoundly wrong .
<unk> , things within his view , the smells took on a new intensity .
He felt himself acutely attuned , a predatory animal in the jungle , knowing his terrain but aware of something intrusive that must be identified lest he become hunted instead of hunter .
He registered his surroundings at a different level of consciousness , reading himself as well , searching out arousal patterns that had achieved this response .
Streggi trembled beneath him .
So she felt his distress .
Something s very wrong here , Odrade said .
He pushed a hand at her , demanding silence .
Even in this tower surrounded by victorious troops , he felt exposed to a threat his clamoring senses failed to reveal .
Danger !
He was sure of it .
The unknown frustrated him .
It required every bit of his training to keep from falling into a nervous fugue .
<unk> Streggi to turn , Teg barked an order to an aide standing in the balcony doorway .
The aide listened quietly and ran to obey .
They must get casualty figures .
How many wounded compared to deaths ?
Reports on captured weapons .
Urgent !
When he returned to his examination of the scene , he saw another disturbing thing , a basic oddity his eyes had tried to report .
Very little blood on those fallen figures in Bene Gesserit uniforms .
You expected battle casualties to show that ultimate evidence of common humanity flowing red that darkened on exposure but always left its indelible mark in the memories of those who Saw it .
Lack of bloody <unk> was an unknown and , in warfare , unknown had a history of bringing extreme peril .
He spoke softly to Odrade .
They have a weapon we have not discovered .
Do not be quick to reveal judgment .
Hidden judgment often is more potent .
It can guide reactions whose effects are felt only when too late to divert them .
BENE GESSERIT <unk> TO <unk> <unk> smelled worms at a distance : cinnamon undertones of melange mingled with bitter flint and brimstone , the crystal banked inferno of the great Rakian sand eaters .
But she sensed these tiny <unk> only because they existed out there in such numbers .
They are so small .
It had been hot here at Desert Watch today and now in late afternoon she welcomed the artifically cooled interior .
There was a tolerable temperature adjustment in her old quarters although the window on the west had been left open .
Sheeana went to that window and stared out at glaring sand .
Memory told her what this vantage would be tonight : starlight bright in dry air , thin illumination on sand waves that reached to a darkly curved horizon .
She remembered Rakian moons and missed them .
Stars alone did not satisfy her Fremen heritage .
She had thought of this as retreat , a place and time to think about what was happening to her Sisterhood .
Axlotl tanks , Cyborgs , and now this .
Odrade s plan held no mysteries since their Sharing .
A gamble ?
And if it succeeded ?
We will know perhaps tomorrow and then what will we become ?
She admitted to a magnet in Desert Watch , more than a place to consider consequences .
She had walked in sun scorched heat today , proving to herself she could still call worms with her dance , emotion expressed as action .
Dance of Propitiation .
My language of the worms .
She had gone dervish whirling on a dune until hunger shattered her memory trance .
And little worms were spread all around in gaping watchfulness , remembered flames within the frames of crystal teeth .
But why so small ?
The words of investigators explained but did not satisfy .
It is the dampness .
Sheeana recalled giant Shai hulud of Dune , the Old Man of the Desert , large enough to swallow spice factories , ring surfaces hard as <unk> .
Masters in their own domain .
God and devil in the sands .
She sensed the potential from her window vantage .
Why did the Tyrant choose symbiotic existence in a worm ?
Did those tiny worms carry his endless dream ?
Sandtrout <unk> this desert .
Accept them as a new Skin and she might follow the Tyrant s path .
Metamorphosis .
The Divided God .
She knew the lure .
Do &#124; dare ?
Memories of her last moments of ignorance came over her barely eight then , the month of Igat on Dune .
Not Rakis .
Dune , as my ancestors named it .
Not difficult to recall herself as she had been : a slender , dark skinned child , streaked brown hair .
Melange hunter ( because that was a task for children ) running into open desert with childhood companions .
How dear it felt in memory .
But memory had its darker side .
Focusing attention into the nostrils , a girl detected intense odors a pre spice mass !
The Blow !
Melange explosion brought Shaitan .
No sandworm could resist a spice blow in its territory .
You ate it all , Tyrant , that miserable collection of shacks and hovels we called home and all of my friends and family .
Why did you spare me ?
What a rage had shaken that slender child .
Everything she loved taken by a giant worm that refused her attempts to sacrifice herself in its flames and carried her into the hands of Rakian priests , thence to the Bene Gesserit .
She talks to the worms and they spare her .
They who spared me are not spared by me .
That was what she had told Odrade .
And now Odrade knows what I must do .
You cannot suppress the wild thing , Dar .
&#124; dare call you Dar now that you are within me .
No response .
Was there a pearl of Leto II Ss awareness in each of the new sandworms ?
Her Fremen ancestors insisted on it .
Someone handed her a sandwich .
Walli , the senior acolyte assistant who had assumed command of Desert Watch .
At my insistence when Odrade elevated me to the Council .
But not just because Walli learned my immunity to Honored Matre sexual bonding .
And not because she Is sensitive to my needs .
We speak a secret language , Walli and l . Walli s large eyes no longer were <unk> to her soul .
They were filmed barriers giving evidence she already knew how to block probing stares ; a light blue pigmentation that soon would be all blue if she survived the Agony .
Almost <unk> and a questionable genetic line for breeding .
Walli s Skin reinforced this judgment : pale and <unk> .
A skin you Saw as a Surface transparency .
You did not focus on the skin itself but on what lay beneath : pink , blood suffused flesh unprotected from a desert sun .
Only here in the shade could Walli expose that sensitive surface to questioning eyes .
Why this one in command over us ?
Because I trust her best to do what must be done .
Sheeana ate the sandwich absently while she returned her attention to the <unk> .
The whole planet thus one day .
Another Dune ?
No ... similar but different .
How many such places are we creating in an infinite universe ?
<unk> question .
Desert <unk> placed a small black dot in the distance .
Sheeana squinted .
Ornithopter .
It grew slowly larger and then smaller .
<unk> the sand .
Inspecting .
What are we really creating here ?
When she looked at encroaching dunes , she sensed hubris .
Look upon my works , tiny human , and despair .
But we did this , my Sisters and I.
Did you ?
&#124; can feel a new dryness in the heat , Walli said .
Sheeana agreed .
No need to speak .
She went to the large worktable while she still had daylight to study the <unk> spread out there : little flags sticking in it , green thread on <unk> just as she had designed it .
Odrade had asked once : Is this really preferable to a projection ?
I need to touch it .
Odrade accepted that .
Projections palled .
Too far removed from dirt .
You could not draw a finger down a projection and say , We will go down here .
A finger in a projection was a finger in empty air .
Eyes are never enough .
The body must feel its world .
Sheeana detected pungency of male perspiration , a musty smell of exertion .
She lifted her head and saw a dark young man standing in the doorway , arrogant pose , arrogant look .
Oh , he said .
I thought you would be alone , Walli .
l &apos;Il come back later .
One piercing stare at Sheeana and he was gone .
There are many things the body must feel to know them .
Sheeana , why are you here ?
Walli asked .
You who are so busy on the Council , what do you seek ?
Don t you trust me ?
I came to consider what the Missionaria still thinks &#124; may do .
They see a weapon the myths of Dune .
Billions pray to me : The Holy One who spoke to the Divided God .
Billions is not an adequate number , Walli said .
But it measures the force my Sisters see in me .
Those worshipers believe &#124; died with Dune .
I ve become a powerful spirit in the pantheon of the oppressed .
More than a missionary ?
What might happen , Walli , if &#124; appeared in that waiting universe , a Sandworm beside me ?
The potential of such a thing fills some of my Sisters with hope and misgivings .
<unk> &#124; understand .
Indeed .
The very kind of religious implant Muad Dib and his Tyrant son set loose on unsuspecting humankind .
Why do they even consider it ?
Walli insisted .
With me as fulcrum , what a lever they would have to move the universe !
But how could they control such a force ?
That is the problem .
Something so <unk> unstable .
Religions are never really controllable .
But some Sisters think they could aim a religion built around me .
And if their aim is poor ?
They say the religions of women always flow deeper .
True ?
Questioning a superior source .
Sheeana could only nod .
Other Memory confirmed it .
Why ?
Because within us , life renews itself .
That s all of it ?
<unk> doubting .
Women often bear the aura of <unk> .
Humans reserve a special sympathy for ones at the bottom .
&#124; am a woman and if Honored Matres want me dead then &#124; must be blessed .
You sound as though you agree with the Missionaria .
When you &apos;re one of the hunted , you consider any path of escape .
&#124; am revered .
&#124; cannot ignore the potential .
Nor the danger .
So my name has become a shining light in the darkness of Honored Matre oppression .
How easy for that light to become a consuming flame !
No ... the plan she and Duncan had worked out was better .
<unk> from Chapterhouse .
It was a death trap not only for its inhabitants but for Bene Gesserit dreams .
I still don t understand why you re here .
We may no longer be hunted .
May ?
But why just now ?
&#124; cannot speak it openly because then the watchdogs would know .
I have this fascination with worms .
It s partly because one of my ancestors led the original migration to Dune .
You remember this , Walli .
We spoke of it once out there on the sand with only the two of us to hear .
And now you know why &#124; have come visiting .
&#124; remember you saying she was a proper Fremen .
And a Zensunni Master .
I &#124; will lead my own migration , Walli .
But &#124; will need worms only you can provide .
And it must be done quickly .
The reports from Junction urge speed .
And the first ships will return soon .
Tonight ... tomorrow .
&#124; fear what they bring .
Are you still interested in taking a few worms back to Central where you can study them closely ?
Oh , yes , Walli !
You do remember .
It might be interesting .
&#124; don t have much time for such things but any knowledge we gain may help us .
It will be too wet for them back there .
The great Hold of the no ship on the Flat could be <unk> into a desert lab .
Sand , controlled atmosphere .
The essentials are there from when we brought the first worm .
Sheeana glanced at the western window .
Sunset .
&#124; would like to go down again and walk on the sand .
Will the first ships return tonight ?
Of course , Reverend Mother .
Walli stood aside , opening the way to the door .
Sheeana spoke as she was leaving .
Desert Watch will have to be moved before long .
We are prepared .
The sun was dipping below the horizon when Sheeana emerged from the arched street at the edge of the community .
She strode into starlit desert , exploring with her senses as she had done as a child .
Ahhh , there was the cinnamon essence .
Worms near .
She paused and , turning northeast away from the last <unk> , placed her palms flat above and below her eyes in the old Fremen way , confining view and light .
She stared out of a horizontal frame .
Whatever fell from heaven must pass this narrow slit .
Tonight ?
They will come just after dark to delay the moment of explanation .
A full night for reflection .
She waited with Bene Gesserit patience .
An arc of fire drew a thin line above the northern horizon .
Another .
Another .
They were positioned right for the Landing Flat .
Sheeana felt her heart beating fast .
They have come !
And what would be their message for the Sisterhood ?
Returning warriors triumphant or refugees ?
There could be little difference , given the evolution of Odrade s plan .
She would know by morning .
Sheeana lowered her hands and found she was trembling .
Deep breath .
The Litany .
Presently , she walked the desert , sandwalking in the remembered stride of Dune .
She had almost forgotten how the feet dragged .
As though they carried extra weight .
Seldom used muscles were called into play but the random walk , once learned , was never forgotten .
Once , &#124; never dreamed &#124; would ever again walk this way .
If watchdogs detected that thought they might wonder about their Sheeana .
It was a failure in herself , she thought .
She had grown into the rhythms of Chapterhouse .
This planet talked to her at a subterranean level .
She felt earth , trees , and flowers , every growing thing as though all were part of her .
And now , here was disturbing movement , something in a language from a different planet .
She sensed the desert changing and that , too , was an alien tongue .
Desert .
Not lifeless but living in a way profoundly different from once verdant Chapterhouse .
Less life but more intense .
She heard the desert : small <unk> , creaking <unk> of insects , a dark rustle of hunting wings overhead and the quickest of <unk> on the sand kangaroo mice brought here in anticipation of this day when worms would once more begin their rule .
Walli will remember to send <unk> and <unk> from Dune .
She stopped atop a tall barracan .
In front of her , darkness blurring its edges , was an ocean caught in stop motion , a shadow surf beating on a shadow beach of this changing land .
It was a <unk> desert sea .
It had originated far away and it would go to stranger places than this .
I &#124; will take you there if &#124; !
am able .
A night breeze from drylands to <unk> places behind her deposited a film of dust on her cheeks and nose , lifting the edges of her hair as it passed .
She felt saddened .
What might have been .
That no longer was important .
The things that are they matter .
She took a deep breath .
Cinnamon stronger .
Melange .
Spice and worms near .
Worms aware of her presence .
How soon would this air be dry enough for the sandworms to grow great and work their crop as they had on Dune ?
The planet and the desert .
She saw them as two halves of the same saga .
Just as the Bene Gesserit and the humankind they served .
Matched halves .
Either without the other was diminished , an emptiness with lost purpose .
Not better dead , perhaps , but moving aimlessly .
There lay the threat of Honored Matre victory .
<unk> by blind violence !
Blind in a hostile universe .
And there was why the Tyrant had preserved the Sisterhood .
He knew he only gave us the path without direction .
A paper chase laid down by a <unk> and left empty at the end .
A poet in his own right , though .
She recalled his Memory <unk> from Dar es Balat , a bit of <unk> the Bene Gesserit preserved .
And for what reason do we preserve it ?
So I can fill my mind with it now ?
<unk> for the moment what I may confront tomorrow ?
The fair night of the poet , Fill it with innocent stars .
A pace apart <unk> stands .
His glare sees everything , <unk> our genes forever .
Welcome darkness and stare , <unk> in the afterglow .
There s barren eternity !
Sheeana felt abruptly that she had won a chance to become the ultimate artist , filled to overflowing and presented with a blank surface where she might create as she wished .
An unrestricted universe !
Odrade s words from those first childhood <unk> to Bene Gesserit purpose came back to her .
Why did we fasten onto you , Sheeana ?
It s really simple .
We recognized in you a thing we had long awaited .
You arrived and we saw it happen .
It ?
How naive &#124; was !
Something new lifting over the horizon .
My migration will seek the new .
But ... &#124; must find a planet with moons .
<unk> at one way , the universe is <unk> movement , nothing predictable at the elemental level .
Muad Dib and his Tyrant son closed the cloud chamber where movement occurred .
STORIES FROM <unk> urbella entered a time of <unk> experiences .
It bothered her at first , seeing her own life with multiple vision .
<unk> events at Junction had ignited this , creating a jumble of immediate necessities that would not leave her , not even when she returned to Chapterhouse .
I warned you , Dar .
You can t deny it .
&#124; said they could turn victory into defeat .
And look at the mess you dumped in my lap !
&#124; was lucky to save as many as &#124; !
did .
This inner protest always immersed her in the events that had elevated her to this awful prominence .
What else could &#124; have done ?
Memory displayed Streggi slumping to the floor in bloodless death .
The scene had played on the no ship s relays like a fictional drama .
The projection framework in the ship s command bay added to the illusion that this was not really happening .
The <unk> would arise and take their bows .
Teg s comeyes , humming away automatically , missed none of it until someone silenced them .
She was left with images , an eerie afterglow : Teg sprawled on the floor of that Honored Matre aerie .
Odrade staring in shock .
Loud protests greeted Murbella s declaration that she must rush groundside .
The Proctors were adamant until she laid out the details of Odrade s gamble and demanded : Do you want total disaster ?
Odrade Within won that argument .
But you were prepared for it from the first , weren t you , Dar ?
Your plan !
The Proctors said : There s still Sheeana .
They gave Murbella a one man lighter and sent her to Junction alone .
Even though she transmitted her Honored Matre identity ahead of her , there were touchy moments at the Landing Flat .
A squad of armed Honored Matres confronted her as she emerged from the lighter beside a smoking pit .
The smoke smelled of exotic explosives .
Where Mother Superior s lighter was destroyed .
An ancient Honored Matre led the squad , her red robe stained , some of its decorations gone and a rip down the left shoulder .
She was like some dried up lizard , still poisonous , still with a bite but running on well used angers , most of her energy gone .
<unk> hair like the outer skin of a fresh dug <unk> root .
There was a demon in her .
Murbella saw it peering from orange flecked eyes .
For all the fact that a full squad backed up the old one , the two of them faced each other as though isolated at the foot of the lighter s drop , wild animals cautiously sniffing , trying to judge the extent of danger .
Murbella watched the old one carefully .
This lizard would dart her tongue a bit , testing the air , giving vent to her emotions , but she was sufficiently shocked to listen .
Murbella is my name .
&#124; was taken captive by the Bene Gesserit on Gammu .
&#124; am an adept of the Hormu .
Why are you wearing a witch s robes ?
The old one and her squad stood ready to kill .
I have learned everything they had to teach and have brought that treasure to my Sisters .
The old one studied her a moment .
Yes , &#124; recognize your type .
You &apos;re a Roc , one we chose for the Gammu project .
The squad behind her relaxed slightly .
You did not come all the way in that lighter , the old one accused .
&#124; escaped from one of their no ships .
Do you know where their nest is ?
I do .
A wide smile spread on the old one s lips .
Well !
You area prize !
How did you escape ?
Do you have to ask ?
The old one considered this .
Murbella could read the thoughts on her face as though they were spoken : These ones we brought from Roc <unk> , all of them .
They can kill with hands , feet , or any other movable part of their bodies .
They all should carry a sign : Dangerous in any position .
Murbella moved away from the lighter , displaying the sinewy grace that was a mark of her identity .
Speed and muscle , Sisters .
Beware .
Some of the squad pressed forward , curious .
Their words were full of Honored Matre comparisons , eager questions Murbella was forced to parry .
Did you kill many of them ?
Where is their planet ?
Is it rich ?
Have you bonded many males there ?
You were trained on Gammu ?
I was on Gammu for the third stage .
Under Hakka .
Hakka !
I ve met her .
Did she have that injured left foot when you knew her ?
Still testing .
It was the right foot and &#124; was with her when she took the injury !
Oh , yes , the right foot .
&#124; remember now .
How was she injured ?
<unk> a lout in the rear .
He had a sharp knife in his hip pocket .
Hakka was so angry she killed him .
Laughter swept through the squad .
We will go to Great Honored Matre , the old one said .
So I ve passed first inspection .
Murbella sensed reservations , though .
Why is this Hormu adept wearing those enemy robes ?
And she has a strange look to her .
Best face that one at once .
I took their training and they accepted me .
The fools !
Did they really ?
You question my word ?
How easy it was to revert , <unk> touchy Honored Matre ways .
The old one bristled .
She did not lose hauteur but she sent a warning look to her squad .
All of them took a moment to digest what Murbella had said .
You became one of them ?
someone behind her asked .
How else could &#124; steal their knowledge ?
Know this !
&#124; was the personal student of their Mother Superior .
Did she teach you well ?
That same challenging voice from behind .
Murbella identified the questioner : middle echelon and ambitious .
<unk> for notice and advancement .
This is the end of you , anxious one .
And little loss to the universe .
A Bene Gesserit feint drifted the feather that was her foe into range .
One Hormu style kick for them to recognize .
The questioner lay dead on the ground .
<unk> of Bene Gesserit and Honored Matre abilities creates a danger you should all recognize and envy .
She taught me admirably , Murbella said .
Any other questions ?
<unk> !
the old one said .
How are you called ?
Murbella demanded .
lam a Senior Dame , Honored Matre of the Hormu .
&#124; am called Elpek .
Thank you , Elpek .
You may call me Murbella .
lam honored , Murbella .
It is indeed a treasure you have brought us .
Murbella studied her a moment with Bene Gesserit watchfulness before smiling without humor .
The exchange of names !
You in your red robe that marks you as one of the powerful surrounding Great Honored Matre , do you know what you have just accepted into your circle ?
The squad remained shocked and looked at Murbella with wariness .
She saw this with her new sensitivity .
The Old <unk> network had never gained a foothold in the Bene Gesserit but it performed for Honored Matres .
Simulflow amused her with a parade of confirmation .
How subtle the power <unk> : right school , right friends , graduation and transfer onto the first <unk> of the ladder all guided by relatives and their connections , mutual back scratching that managed alliances , including marriages .
Simulflow told her it led into the pit but ones on the ladder , the ones in controlling niches , never let that worry them .
Today is sufficient unto today , and that is how Elpek sees me .
But she does not see what I have become , only that I am dangerous but potentially useful .
Turning slowly on one foot , Murbella studied Elpek s squad .
No bonded males here .
This was too sensitive a duty for any but trusted women .
Good .
Now , you will listen to me , all of you .
If you have any loyalty to our Sisterhood , which &#124; will judge on future performance , you will honor what &#124; have brought .
&#124; intend it as a gift for those who deserve it .
Great Honored Matre will be pleased , Elpek said .
But Great Honored Matre did not appear pleased when Murbella was presented .
Murbella recognized the tower setting .
Almost sunset now but Streggi s body still lay where it had fallen .
Some of Teg s specialists had been killed , mostly the comeye crew who doubled as his guard .
No , we Honored Matres do not like others spying on us .
Teg still lived , she saw , but he was <unk> in shigawire and shoved disdainfully into a corner .
Most surprising of all : Odrade stood unfettered near Great Honored Matre .
It was a gesture of contempt .
Murbella felt she had lived through such a scene many times aftermath of Honored Matre Victory : <unk> of their enemies bodies left where they had been brought down .
Honored Matre attack with the bloodless weapon had been swift and deadly , a typical viciousness that killed when killing no longer was required .
She suppressed a shudder at the memory of this deadly <unk> .
There had been no warning , only the troops dropping in wide lines a <unk> effect that left the survivors in shock .
And Great Honored Matre obviously enjoyed the shock .
Looking at Murbella , Great Honored Matre said , So this is the bag of insolence you say you trained in your ways .
Odrade almost smiled at the description .
<unk> of insolence ?
A Bene Gesserit would accept it without rancor .
This rheumy eyed Great Honored Matre faced a quandary and could not call on her weapon that killed without blood .
Very delicate balance of power .
<unk> conversations among Honored Matres had revealed their problem .
All of their secret weapons had been exhausted and could not be <unk> , something they had lost when driven back here .
Our weapon of last resort and we wasted it !
Logno , who thought herself supreme , stood in a different arena now .
And she had just learned of the fearful ease with which Murbella could kill one of the elect .
Murbella cast a measuring gaze over Great Honored Matre s entourage , gauging their potentials .
They recognized this situation , of course .
Familiar .
How did they vote ?
Neutral ?
Some were wary and all were waiting .
<unk> a diversion .
No concern over who triumphed as long as power continued to flow in their direction .
Murbella let her muscles flow into the waiting stance of combat she had learned from Duncan and the Proctors .
She felt as cool as though standing on the practice floor , running through responses .
Even as she reacted , she knew she moved in ways for which Odrade had prepared her mentally , physically , and emotionally .
Voice first .
Give them a taste of inner chill .
I see you have assessed the Bene Gesserit quite poorly .
The arguments of which you are so proud , these women have heard them so many times your words go beyond boredom .
This was delivered with <unk> vocal control , a tone that brought orange to Logno s eyes but held her motionless .
Murbella was not through with her .
You consider yourself powerful and clever .
One begets the other , eh ?
What <unk> !
You &apos;re a consummate liar and you lie to yourself .
As Logno remained motionless in the face of this attack , those around her began moving away , opening space that said , She is all yours .
Your fluency in these lies does not hide them , Murbella said .
She swept a scornful gaze across the ones behind Logno .
Like the ones I know in Other Memory , you are headed for extinction .
The problem is that you take so infernally long dying .
Inevitable but oh , the boredom meanwhile .
You dare call yourself Great Honored Matre !
Returning her attention to Logno .
Everything about you is a cesspool .
You have no style .
It was too much .
Logno attacked , left foot slashing outward with blinding speed .
Murbella grasped the foot as she would catch a wind blown leaf and , continuing the flow of it , levered Logno into a threshing club that ended with her head <unk> on the floor .
Without pausing , Murbella pirouetted , left foot almost <unk> the Honored Matre who had stood at Logno s right , the right hand crushing the throat of the one who had stood at Logno s left .
It was over in two heartbeats .
Examining the scene without breathing hard ( to show how easy it was , Sisters ) , Murbella experienced a sense of shock and recognition of the inevitable .
Odrade lay on the floor in front of Elpek , who obviously had chosen sides without hesitation .
The twisted position of Odrade s neck and flaccid appearance of her body said she was dead .
She tried to interfere , Elpek said .
Having killed a Reverend Mother , Elpek expected Murbella ( a Sister , after all ! )
to applaud .
But Murbella did not react as expected .
She knelt beside Odrade and put her head against that of the corpse , staying there an interminable time .
The surviving Honored Matres exchanged questioning looks but dared not move .
What is this ?
But they were immobilized by Murbella s terrifying abilities .
When she had Odrade s recent past , all of the new added to previous Sharing , Murbella stood .
Elpek saw death in Murbella s eyes and took one backward step before trying to defend herself .
Elpek was dangerous but no match for this demon in the black robe .
It was over with the same shocking abruptness that had taken Logno and her aides : a kick to the larynx .
Elpek sprawled across Odrade .
Once more , Murbella studied the survivors , then stood a moment looking down at Odrade s body .
In a way , that was my doing , Dar .
And yours !
She shook her head from side to side , absorbing consequences .
Odrade is dead .
Long live Mother Superior !
Long live Great Honored Matre !
And may the heavens protect us all .
She gave her attention then to what must be done .
These deaths had created an enormous debt .
Murbella took a deep breath .
This was another <unk> knot .
Release Teg , she said .
Clean up in here as quickly as possible .
And somebody get me a proper robe !
It was Great Honored Matre giving orders but those who leaped to obey sensed the Other in her .
The one who brought her a red robe elaborate with <unk> dragons held it <unk> from a distance .
Large woman with heavy bones and square face .
<unk> eyes .
Hold it for me , Murbella said and when the woman tried to take advantage of proximity to attack her , Murbella dumped the woman hard .
Try again ?
This time there were no tricks .
You are the first member of my Council , Murbella said .
Name ?
Angelika , Great Honored Matre .
See !
/ was first to call you by your proper title .
<unk> me .
Your reward is that &#124; promote you and let you live .
<unk> Honored Matre response .
Accepted as such .
When Teg came to her rubbing his arms where the shigawire had bitten deep , some Honored Matres tried to caution Murbella .
Do you know what this one can He serves me now , Murbella interrupted .
Then in Odrade s mocking tones : Isn t that right , Miles ?
He gave her a rueful smile , an old man on a child s face .
Interesting times , Murbella .
Dar liked <unk> , Murbella said .
See to that .
He nodded .
Return her to a <unk> orchard .
Not that prized Bene Gesserit orchards would endure long ina desert .
Still , some traditions were worth perpetuating while you could .
What do Holy Accidents teach ?
Be resilient .
Be strong .
Be ready for change , for the new .
Gather many experiences and judge them by the steadfast nature of our faith .
TLEILAXU <unk> We !
within Teg s original timetable , Murbella picked her Honored Matre entourage and returned to Chapterhouse .
She expected certain problems and the messages she sent ahead paved the way for solutions .
I bring Futars to attract Handlers .
Honored Matres fear a biological weapon from the Scattering that made vegetables of them .
Handlers may be the source .
Prepare to keep Rabbi and party in no ship .
Honor their secrecy .
And remove the protective mines from the ship !
( That went in keeping of a Proctor messenger . )
She was tempted to ask for her children but that was non Bene Gesserit .
Someday .
.. maybe .
Immediately on returning , she had Duncan to accommodate and this confused Honored Matres .
They were as bad as the Bene Gesserit .
What s so special about one man ?
No longer a reason for him to remain in the ship but he refused to leave .
I ve a mental mosaic to assemble : a piece that cannot be moved , extraordinary behavior , and willing participation in their dream .
&#124; must find limits to test .
That s missing .
&#124; know how to find it .
Get in tune .
Don t think ; do it .
It made no sense .
She <unk> him although he was changed .
A stability to this new Duncan that she accepted as a challenge .
By what right did he assume a self satisfied air ?
No ... not self satisfied .
It was more being at peace with a decision .
He refused to share it !
I ve accepted things .
You must do the same .
She had to admit this described what she was doing .
On her first morning back , she arose at dawn and entered the workroom .
<unk> the red robe , she sat in Mother Superior s chair and <unk> Bellonda .
Bell stood at one end of the worktable .
She knew .
The design became clear in execution .
Odrade had imposed a debt on her as well .
Thus , the silence : assessing how she must pay .
Service to this Mother Superior , Bell !
That is how you pay .
No Archival <unk> of these events will put them into proper perspective .
Action Is required .
Bellonda spoke finally .
The only crisis I d care to compare with this one is the advent of the Tyrant .
Murbella reacted sharply .
Hold your tongue , Bell , unless you &apos;ve something useful to say !
Bellonda took the reprimand calmly ( uncharacteristic response ) .
Dar had changes in mind .
This what she expected ?
Murbella softened her tone .
We &apos;ll <unk> ancient history later .
This is an opening chapter .
Bad news .
That was the old Bellonda .
Murbella said : Admit the first group .
Be cautious .
They are Great Honored Matre s High Council .
Bell left to obey .
She knows I have every right to this position .
They all know it .
No need for a vote .
No room for a vote !
Now was the time for the historical art of politics she had learned from Odrade .
In all things you must appear important .
No minor decisions pass through your hands unless they are quiet acts called favors done for people whose loyalty can be earned .
Every reward came from on high .
Not a good policy with the Bene Gesserit but this group entering the workroom , they were familiar with a <unk> Great Honored Matre ; they would accept new political necessities .
<unk> .
It was always temporary , especially with Honored Matres .
Bell and watchdogs knew she would be a long time sorting this out .
Even with amplified Bene Gesserit abilities .
It would require extremely demanding attention from all of them .
And the first thing was the sharply <unk> gaze of innocence .
That is what Honored Matres lost , and we must restore it before they can fade into the background where we belong .
Bellonda ushered in the Council and retired silently .
Murbella waited until they were seated .
A mixed lot : some <unk> to supreme power .
Angelika there smiling so prettily .
Some waiting ( not even daring to hope yet ) but gathering what they could .
Our Sisterhood was acting with stupidity , Murbella accused .
She noted the ones who took this angrily .
You would have killed the goose !
They did not understand .
She dredged up the <unk> .
They listened with proper attention , even when she added : Don t you realize how desperately we need every one of these witches ?
We outnumber them so greatly that each of them will carry an enormous teaching burden !
They considered this and , bitter though it was , they were forced to a qualified acceptance because she said it .
Murbella hammered it home .
Not only am I your Great Honored Matre ...
Does anyone question that ?
No one questioned .
but &#124; am Bene Gesserit Mother Superior .
They can do little else but confirm me in office .
Two of them started to protest but Murbella cut them Short .
No !
You would be powerless to enforce your will on them .
You would have to kill them all .
But they will obey me .
The two continued to babble and she shouted them down : Compared to me with what &#124; acquired from them , the lot of you are miserable weaklings !
Do any of you challenge that ?
No one challenged but orange flecks were there .
You are children with no knowledge of what you might become , she said .
Would you return defenseless to face the ones of many faces ?
Would you become vegetables ?
That caught their interest .
They were accustomed to this tone from older commanders .
The content held them now .
It was difficult to accept from one so young ... still ... the things she had done .
And to Logno and her aides !
Murbella saw them admire the bait .
<unk> .
This group will carry it away with them .
Hybrid vigor .
We are fertilized to grow stronger .
And flower .
And go to seed ?
Best not dwell on that .
Honored Matres will not see it until they are almost Reverend Mothers .
Then they will look back angrily as I did .
How could we have been that stupid ?
She saw submission take shape in councillors eyes .
There would be a honeymoon .
Honored Matres would be children in a candy store .
Only gradually would the inevitable grow plain to them .
Then they would be trapped .
As &#124; was trapped .
Don t ask the oracle what you can gain .
That s the trap .
Beware the real fortune <unk> !
Would you like thirty five hundred years of boredom ?
Odrade Within objected .
Give the Tyrant some credit .
It couldn t all have been boredom .
More like a Guild Navigator picking his passage through foldspace .
Golden Path .
An Atreides paid for your survival , Murbella .
Murbella felt burdened .
The Tyrant s payment dumped on her shoulders .
/ didn t ask him to do it for me .
Odrade could not let that pass .
He did it nonetheless .
Sorry , Dar .
He paid .
Now , &#124; must pay .
So you are a Reverend Mother at last !
The councillors had grown restive under her stare .
Angelika elected to speak for them .
After all , &#124; am first chosen .
Watch that one !
A blaze of ambition in her eyes .
What response are you asking us to take with these witches ?
<unk> by her own boldness .
Was not Great Honored Matre also a witch now ?
Murbella spoke softly .
You will tolerate them and offer them no violence whatsoever .
Angelika was emboldened by Murbella s mild tone .
Is that Great Honored Matre s decision or the Enough !
&#124; could bloody the floor of this room with the lot of you !
Do you wish to test it ?
They did not wish to test it .
And what if &#124; say to you that it is Mother Superior speaking ?
You will ask do &#124; have a policy to meet our problem ?
&#124; will say : <unk> ?
Ahh , yes .
&#124; have a policy for unimportant things such as insect <unk> .
Unimportant things call for policies .
For such of you as do not see the wisdom in my decision , &#124; need no policy .
Your kind &#124; dispose of quickly .
Dead before you know you &apos;ve been injured !
That is my response to the presence of filth .
Is there any filth in this room ?
It was language they recognized : the lash of the Great Honored Matre backed by ability to kill .
You are my Council , Murbella said .
I expect wisdom from you .
The least you can do is pretend you are wise .
<unk> sympathy from Odrade : / f that s the way Honored Matres give and take orders , it won t require much deep analysis by Bell .
Murbella s thoughts went elsewhere .
/ am no longer Honored Matre .
The step from one to another was so recent she found her Honored Matre performance uncomfortable .
Her adjustments were a metaphor of what would happen to her former Sisters .
A new role and she did not wear it well .
Other Memory simulated long association with herself as this new person .
This was no mystical transubstantiation , merely new abilities .
Merely ?
The change was profound .
Did Duncan realize this ?
It pained her that he might never see through to this new person .
Is that the residue of my love for him ?
Murbella drew back from her questions , not wanting an answer .
She felt repelled by something that went deeper than she cared to burrow .
There will be decisions &#124; must make that love would prevent .
Decisions for the Sisterhood and not for myself .
That is where my fear is pointing .
Immediate necessities restored her .
She sent her councillors away , promising pain and death if they failed to learn this new restraint .
Next , Reverend Mothers must be taught a new diplomacy : getting along with no one not even with each other .
It would grow easier in time .
Honored Matres slipping into Bene Gesserit ways .
One day , there would be no Honored Matres ; only Reverend Mothers with improved reflexes and augmented knowledge of sexuality .
Murbella felt haunted by words she had heard but not accepted until this moment .
The things we will do for Bene Gesserit survival have no limits .
Duncan will see this .
&#124; cannot keep it from him .
The Mentat will not hold to a fixed idea of what &#124; was before the Agony .
He opens his mind as I open a door .
He will examine his net .
What have I caught this time ?
Was this what happened to Lady Jessica ?
Other Memory carried Jessica threaded into the warp and <unk> of Sharings .
Murbella unraveled a bit and paraded elder knowledge .
Heretic Lady Jessica ?
<unk> in office ?
Jessica had plunged into love as Odrade had plunged into the sea and the resultant waves had all but engulfed the Sisterhood .
Murbella sensed this taking her where she did not want to go .
Pain clutched her chest .
Duncan !
Ohhhh , Duncan !
She dropped her face into her hands .
Dar , <unk> me .
What am I to do ?
Never ask why you &apos;re a Reverend Mother .
I must !
The progression is clear in my memory and ... That s a sequence .
Thinking of it as cause and effect <unk> you away from totality .
Tao ?
<unk> : You are here .
But Other Memory goes back and back and ...
Imagine it s <unk> interlocked .
Those are just words !
Is your body still functioning ?
/ hurt , Dar .
You don t have a body anymore and it s useless to ... We occupy different niches .
The pains &#124; felt are not your pains .
My joys are not yours .
&#124; don t want your sympathy !
Ohh , Dar !
Why was I born ?
Were you born to lose Duncan ?
Dar , please !
So you were born and now you know that s never enough .
So you became an Honored Matre .
What else could you do ?
Still not enough ?
Now you &apos;re a Reverend Mother .
You think that s enough ?
It s never enough as long as you &apos;re alive .
You &apos;re telling me I must always reach beyond myself .
Pah !
You don t make decisions on that basis .
Didn t you hear him ?
Don t think ; do it !
Will you choose the easy way ?
Why should you feel sad because you ve encountered the inevitable ?
If that s all you can see , confine yourself to improving the breed !
Damn you !
Why did you do this to me ?
Do what ?
Make me see myself and my former Sisters this way !
What way ?
Damn you !
You know what I mean !
Former Sisters , you say ?
Oh , you are insidious .
All Reverend Mothers are insidious .
You never stop teaching !
Is that what I do ?
How innocent &#124; was !
Asking you what you really do .
You know as well as I do .
We wait for humankind to mature .
The Tyrant only provided them time to grow but now they need care .
What s the Tyrant have to do with my pain ?
You foolish woman !
Did you fail the Agony ?
You know I didn t !
Stop stumbling over the obvious .
Oh , you bitch !
&#124; prefer witch .
Either is preferable to whore .
The only difference between Bene Gesserit and Honored Matre is the marketplace .
You married our Sisterhood .
Our Sisterhood ?
You bred for power !
How is that different from ... Don &apos;t twist it , Murbella !
Keep your eyes on survival .
Don &apos;t tell me you had no power .
Temporary authority over people intent on survival .
Survival again !
In a Sisterhood that promotes the survival of others .
Like the married woman who bears children .
So it comes down to procreation .
That s a decision you make for yourself : family and what binds it .
What <unk> life and happiness ?
Murbella began to laugh .
She dropped her hands and opened her eyes to find Bellonda standing there watching .
That s always a temptation for a new Reverend Mother , Bellonda said .
<unk> a bit with Other Memory .
Who was it this time ?
Dar ?
Murbella nodded .
Don t trust anything they give you .
It s lore and you judge it for yourself .
Odrade s words exactly .
Look through the eyes of the dead at scenes long gone .
What a <unk> show !
You can get lost in there for hours , Bellonda said .
Exercise restraint .
Be sure of your ground .
One hand for yourself and one for the ship .
There it was again !
The past applied to the present .
How rich Other Memory made everyday life .
It &apos;ll pass , Bellonda said .
It gets to be old hat after a time .
She laid a report in front of Murbella .
Old hat !
One hand for yourself and one for the ship .
So much just in <unk> .
Murbella leaned back in the slingchair to scan Bellonda s report , <unk> herself suddenly in Odrade s <unk> : Spider Queen in the center of my web .
The web might be a bit frayed just now but it was still there catching things to be digested .
<unk> a trigger strand and Bell came running , mandibles flexing in anticipation .
The twitch words were Archives and Analysis .
Seeing Bellonda in this light , Murbella saw the wisdom in the ways Odrade had employed her , flaws as valuable as the strengths .
When Murbella finished the report , Bellonda still stood there in characteristic attitude .
Murbella recognized that Bellonda looked on all who Summoned her as ones who had not measured up , people who called on Archives for frivolous reasons and had to be set straight .
<unk> : Bellonda s <unk>  te <unk> .
Murbella found this amusing .
Murbella kept amusement masked while enjoying Bellonda .
The way to deal with her was to be scrupulous .
Nothing to subtract from strengths .
This report was a model of <unk> and pertinent argument .
She made her points with few <unk> , just enough to reveal her own conclusions .
Does it amuse you to summon me ?
Bellonda asked .
She s sharper than she was !
Did I summon her ?
Not in so many words but she knows when she s needed .
She says here our Sisters must be models of <unk> .
Mother Superior may be anything she needs to be but not so the rest of the Sisterhood .
Murbella touched the report .
A starting point .
Then we should start before your friends find the comeye center .
Bellonda sank into her chairdog with familiar confidence .
Tam s gone but &#124; could send for Sheeana .
Where is she ?
At the ship .
Studying a collection of worms in the Great Hold , says any of us can be taught to control them .
Valuable if true .
Leave her .
What of Scytale ?
Still in the ship .
Your friends haven t found him yet .
We &apos;re keeping him under wraps .
Let s continue that .
He s a good reserve bargaining chip .
And they re not my friends , Bell .
How are the Rabbi and his party ?
<unk> but worried .
They Know Honored Matres are here .
Keep them under wraps .
It s uncanny .
A different voice but &#124; hear Dar .
An echo in your head .
Bellonda actually laughed .
Now here s what you must spread among the Sisters .
We act with extreme delicacy while showing ourselves as people to admire and emulate .
You Honored Matres may not choose to live as we live but you can learn our strengths .
<unk> .
It comes down to ownership .
Honored Matres are owned by things .
I want that place , that bauble , that person .
Take what you want .
Use it until you tire of it .
While we go along our path admiring what we see .
And there s our flaw .
We don t give ourselves easily .
Fear of love and affection !
To be self possessed has its own greed .
See what &#124; have ?
You can t have it unless you follow my ways !
Never take that attitude with Honored Matres .
Are you telling me we have to love them ?
How else can we make them admire us ?
That was Jessica s victory .
When she gave , she gave it all .
So much bottled up by our ways and then that overwhelming wash : everything given .
It s irresistible .
We don t compromise that easily .
No more do Honored Matres .
That s the way of their bureaucratic origins !
Yet , theirs is a training ground for following the path of least resistance .
You &apos;re confusing me , <unk> ... Murbella .
Have &#124; said we should compromise ?
Compromise weakens us , and we know there are problems compromise cannot solve , decisions we must make no matter how bitter .
<unk> to love them ?
That s a beginning .
It ll be a bloody union , this joining of Bene Gesserit and Honored Matre .
I suggest we Share as widely as possible .
We may lose people while Honored Matres are learning .
A marriage made on the battlefield .
Murbella stood , thinking of Duncan in the no ship , remembering the ship as she had seen it last .
There it was finally , not hidden to any sense .
A lump of strange machinery , oddly grotesque .
A wild conglomeration of protrusions and <unk> with no apparent purpose .
Hard to imagine the thing lifting on its own power , enormous as that was , and vanishing into space .
<unk> into space !
She saw the shape of Duncan s mental mosaic .
A piece that cannot be moved !
Get in tune ... Don t think ; do it !
With an abruptness that chilled her , she knew his decision .
When you think to take determination of your fate into your own hands , that is the moment you can be crushed .
Be cautious .
Allow for surprises .
When we create , there are always other forces at work .
DARWI ODRADE fd MI <unk> with extreme care , Sheeana had warned him .
Idaho did not think he needed warning but appreciated it nonetheless .
Presence of Honored Matres on Chapterhouse eased his task .
They made the ship s Proctors and other guards nervous .
Murbella s orders kept her former Sisters out of the ship but everyone knew the enemy was here .
<unk> relays showed a seemingly endless stream of lighters disgorging Honored Matres on the Flat .
Most of the new arrivals appeared curious about that monstrous no ship sitting there but no one disobeyed Great Honored Matre .
Not while she s alive , Idaho muttered where Proctors could hear him .
They have a tradition of <unk> their leaders to replace them .
How long can Murbella hold out ?
Comeyes did his work for him .
He knew his muttering would spread through the ship .
Sheeana came to him in his workroom shortly afterward and made a show of disapproval .
What are you trying to do , Duncan ?
You re upsetting people .
Go back to your worms !
Duncan !
Murbella s playing a dangerous game !
She s all that stands between us and disaster .
He already had voiced this worry to Murbella .
It was not new to the watchers but reinforcement made everyone who heard him edgy comeye monitors in Archives , ship guards , everyone .
Except Honored Matres .
Murbella was keeping them out of Bellonda s Archives .
Time for that later , she said .
Sheeana had her cue .
Duncan , either stop feeding our worries or tell us what we should do .
You re a Mentat .
Function for us .
Ahhh , the Great Mentat performs for all to see .
What you should do is obvious but it s not up to me .
&#124; can t leave Murbella .
But I can be taken away .
Now it was up to Sheeana .
She left him and went to spread her own brand of change .
We have the Scattering for our example .
By evening , she had the Reverend Mothers in the ship <unk> and gave him a hand signal that they could take the next step .
They will follow my lead .
Without intending it , the Missionaria had set the stage for Sheeana s ascendancy .
Most Sisters knew the power latent in her .
Dangerous .
But it was there .
<unk> power was like a marionette with visible strings , nobody holding them .
A compelling attraction : / could make it dance .
Feeding the deception , he called Murbella .
When will &#124; see you ?
Duncan , please .
Even in projection , she looked <unk> .
I m busy .
You know the pressures .
l &apos;Il be out in a few days .
Projection showed Honored Matres in the background scowling at this odd behavior in their leader .
Any Reverend Mother could read their faces .
Has Great Honored Matre gone soft ?
That s nothing but a man out there !
When he broke off , Idaho emphasized what every monitor on the ship had seen .
She s in danger !
Doesn t she know it ?
And now , Sheeana , it s up to you .
Sheeana had the key to <unk> the ship s flight controls .
The mines were gone .
No one could destroy the ship at the last instant with a signal to hidden explosives .
There was only the human cargo to consider , Teg especially .
Teg will see my choices .
The others the Rabbi &apos;s party and Scytale will have to take their chances with us .
The Futars in their security cells did not worry him .
Interesting animals but not significant at the moment .
For that matter , he gave only a passing thought to Scytale .
The little Tleilaxu remained under the eyes of guards , who were not relaxing their watch on him no matter their other worries .
He went to bed with a nervousness that had ready explanation for any watchdog in Archives .
His precious Murbella is in peril .
And she was in peril but he could not protect her .
My very presence is a danger to her now .
He was up at dawn , back to the armory dismantling a weapons factory .
Sheeana found him there and asked him to join her in the guard section .
A handful of Proctors greeted them .
The leader they had chosen did not surprise him .
Garimi .
He had heard about her performance at the Convocation .
Suspicious .
<unk> .
Ready to make her own gamble .
She was a sober faced woman .
Some said she seldom smiled .
We have diverted the comeyes in this room , Garimi said .
They show us having a snack and questioning you about weapons .
Idaho felt a knot in his stomach .
Bell s people would spot a simulation quickly .
Especially a projected mock up of himself .
Garimi responded to his frown .
We have allies in Archives .
Sheeana said : We are here to ask if you wish to leave before we escape in this ship .
His surprise was genuine .
Stay behind ?
He had not considered it .
Murbella was no longer his .
The bond had been broken in her .
She did not accept it .
Not yet .
But she would the first time she was asked to make a decision putting him in danger for Bene Gesserit purposes .
Now , she merely stayed away from him more than was necessary .
You &apos;re going to Scatter ?
he asked , looking at Garimi .
We &apos;ll save what we can .
<unk> with our feet , it was called once .
Murbella is <unk> the Bene Gesserit .
There was the unspoken argument he had trusted to win them .
Disagreement over Odrade s gamble .
Idaho took a deep breath .
I will go with you .
No regrets !
Garimi warned .
That s stupid !
he said , venting his repressed grief .
Garimi would not have been surprised by that response from a Sister .
Idaho shocked her and she was several seconds recovering .
Honesty compelled her .
Of course it s stupid .
I m sorry .
You &apos;re sure you won t stay ?
We owe you the chance to make your own decision .
Bene Gesserit <unk> with those who served them <unk> !
<unk> join you .
The grief they saw on his face was not simulated .
He wore it openly when he returned to his console .
My assigned position .
He did not try to hide his actions when he coded for the Ship s <unk> circuits .
Allies in Archives .
The circuits came flashing up on his projections colored ribbons with a broken link into flight systems .
The way around that <unk> was visible after only a few moments study .
Mentat observations had been prepared for it .
<unk> through the core !
Idaho sat back and waited .
Lift off was a skull rattling moment of blankness that stopped abruptly when they were far enough clear of the surface to engage <unk> and enter foldspace .
Idaho watched his projection .
There they were : the old couple in their garden setting !
He saw the net shimmering in front of them , the man gesturing at it , smiling in round faced satisfaction .
They moved in a transparent overlay that revealed ship circuits behind them .
The net grew larger not lines but ribbons thicker than the projected circuits .
The man s lips shaped words but there was no sound .
We expected you .
Idaho s hands went to his console , fingers splayed in the comfield to grasp required elements of the circuit control .
No time for niceties .
Gross disruption .
He was into the core within a second .
From there , it was a simple matter to dump entire segments .
Navigation went first .
He saw the net begin to thin , the look of surprise on the man s face .
<unk> were next .
Idaho felt the ship lurching in foldspace .
The net tipped , becoming elongated with the two watchers foreshortened and thinned .
Idaho wiped out star memory circuits , taking his own data with them .
Net and watchers vanished .
How did I know they would be there ?
He had no answer except a certainty rooted in the repeated visions .
Sheeana did not look up when he found her at the temporary flight control board in the guard quarters .
She was bent over the board , staring at it in consternation .
The projection above her showed they had emerged from foldspace .
Idaho recognized none of the visible star patterns but he had expected that .
Sheeana swiveled and looked at Garimi standing over her .
We &apos;ve lost all data storage !
Idaho tapped his temple with a forefinger .
No we haven &apos;t .
But it &apos;ll take years to recover even the essentials !
Sheeana protested .
What happened ?
We &apos;re an unidentifiable ship in an unidentifiable universe , Idaho said .
Isn t that what we wanted ?
There s no secret to balance .
You just have to feel the waves .
DARWI ODRADE M urbella felt that an age had passed since she recognized Duncan s decision .
<unk> into space !
Leave me !
The unvarying time sense of the Agony told her only seconds had elapsed since awareness of his intentions but she felt she had known this from the first .
He must be stopped !
She was reaching for her comboard when Central began to shudder .
The <unk> continued for an interminable time and subsided slowly .
Bellonda was on her feet .
What ...
The no ship at the Flat has just lifted , Murbella said .
Bellonda reached for the comboard but Murbella stopped her .
It &apos;s gone .
She must not see my pain .
But who ... Bellonda fell silent .
She had her own <unk> of consequences and saw then what Murbella Saw .
Murbella sighed .
She had all of the curses of history at her disposal and wanted none of them .
At <unk> , &#124; will eat in my private dining room with councillors and &#124; want you present , Murbella said .
Tell Duana oyster stew again .
Bellonda started to protest but all that came out was : Again ?
You will recall &#124; ate alone downstairs last night ?
Murbella resumed her seat .
Mother Superior has duties !
There were maps to change and rivers to follow and Honored Matres to <unk> .
Some waves throw you , Murbella .
But you get back up and go on with it .
Seven times down , eight times up .
You can balance on strange surfaces .
&#124; know , Dar .
<unk> participation in your dream .
Bellonda stared at her until Murbella said , I made my councillors sit at a distance from me at dinner last night .
It was strange only the two tables in the whole dining room .
Why do I continue this <unk> chatter ?
What excuses do &#124; have for my extraordinary behavior ?
We wondered why none of us were permitted in our own dining room , Bellonda said .
To save your lives !
But you should have seen their interest .
&#124; read their lips .
Angelika said : She s eating some kind of stew .
&#124; heard her discussing it with the chef .
Isn t this a marvelous world we &apos;ve acquired ?
We must sample that stew she ordered .
<unk> , Bellonda said .
I see .
Then : You know , don t you , Sheeana took the Van Gogh painting from .
.
.
your sleeping chamber ?
Why does that hurt ?
I noticed it was missing .
Said she was <unk> it for her room in the ship .
Murbella s lips went thin .
Damn them !
Duncan and Sheeana !
Teg , Scytale ... all of them gone and no way to follow .
But we still have axlotl tanks and Idaho cells from our children .
Not the same ... but close .
He thinks he s escaped !
Are you all right , Murbella ?
<unk> in Bell s voice .
You warned me about wild things , Dar , and I didn t listen .
After we &apos;ve eaten , &#124; will take my councillors on an inspection tour of Central .
Tell my acolyte l &apos;Il want <unk> before <unk> .
Bellonda left , muttering .
That was more like her .
How do you guide me now , Dar ?
You want guidance ?
A guided tour of your life ?
Is that why &#124; died ?
But they took the Van Gogh , too !
Is that what you ll miss ?
Why did they take it , Dar ?
<unk> laughter greeted this and Murbella was glad no one else heard .
Can t you see what she intends ?
The Missionaria scheme !
Oh , more than that .
It s the next phase : Muad Dib to Tyrant to Honored Matres to us to Sheeana ... to what ?
Can t you see it ?
The thing is right here at the lip of your thoughts .
Accept it as you would swallow a bitter drink .
Murbella shuddered .
See it ?
The bitter medicine of a Sheeana future ?
We once thought all medicines had to be bitter or they were not effective .
No healing power in the sweet .
Must it happen , Dar ?
Some will choke on that medicine .
But the survivors may create interesting patterns .
<unk> opposites define your longings and those longings <unk> you .
THE ZENSUNNI WHIP mm <unk> deliberately let them get away , Daniel !
The old woman rubbed her hands down the stained front of her garden apron .
It was a Summer morning around her , flowers <unk> , birds calling from nearby trees .
There was a misty look to the sky , a yellow radiance near the horizon .
Now , Marty , it was not deliberate , Daniel said .
He took off his <unk> hat and rubbed the bushy stubble of gray hair before replacing the hat .
He surprised me .
&#124; knew he Saw us but &#124; didn t suspect he saw the net .
And &#124; had such a nice planet picked out for them , Marty said .
One of the best .
A real test of their abilities .
No use moaning about it , Daniel said .
They &apos;re where we can t touch them now .
He was spread so thin , though , &#124; expected to catch him easy .
They had a Tleilaxu Master , too , Marty said .
I saw him when they went under the net .
&#124; would have so liked to study another Master .
Don t see why .
Always whistling at us , always making it necessary to <unk> them down .
&#124; don t like treating Masters that way and you know it !
If it weren t <unk> .. .
They re not gods , Daniel .
Neither are we .
I still think you let them escape .
You re so anxious to prune your roses !
What would you have said to the Master , anyway ?
Daniel asked .
I was going to joke when he asked who we were .
They always ask that .
&#124; was going to say : What did you expect , God Himself with a flowing beard ?
Daniel chuckled .
That would ve been funny .
They have such a hard time accepting that Face Dancers can be independent of them .
I don t see why .
It s a natural consequence .
They gave us the power to absorb the memories and experiences of other people .
Gather enough of those and ...
It s personas we take , Marty .
Whatever .
The Masters should ve known we would gather enough of them one day to make our own decisions about our own future .
And theirs ?
Oh , I &apos;d have apologized to him after putting him in his place .
You can do just so much <unk> of others , isn t that right , Daniel ?
When you get that look on your face , Marty , &#124; go prune my roses .
He went back to a line of bushes with verdant leaves and black blooms as large as his head .
Marty called after him : Gather up enough people and you get a big ball of knowledge , Daniel !
That s what I d have told him .
And those Bene Gesserit in that ship !
I d have told them how many of them &#124; have .
Ever notice how alienated they feel when we peek at them ?
